The Project Gutenberg EBook of Dracula, by Bram StokerThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: DraculaAuthor: Bram StokerRelease Date: May 9, 2008 [EBook #345]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DRACULA ***DRACULAbyBram Stoker1897 editionTABLE OF CONTENTSCHAPTER  1  Jonathan Harker's Journal  2  Jonathan Harker's Journal  3  Jonathan Harker's Journal  4  Jonathan Harker's Journal  5  Letter From Miss Mina Murray To Miss Lucy Westenra  6  Mina Murray's Journal  7  Cutting From "The Dailygraph", 8 August  8  Mina Murray's Journal  9  Letter, Mina Harker To Lucy Westenra 10  Letter, Dr. Seward To Hon. Arthur Holmwood 11  Lucy Westenra's Diary 12  Dr. Seward's Diary 13  Dr. Seward's Diary 14  Mina Harker's Journal 15  Dr. Seward's Diary 16  Dr. Seward's Diary 17  Dr. Seward's Diary 18  Dr. Seward's Diary 19  Jonathan Harker's Journal 20  Jonathan Harker's Journal 21  Dr. Seward's Diary 22  Jonathan Harker's Journal 23  Dr. Seward's Diary 24  Dr. Seward's Phonograph Diary 25  Dr. Seward's Diary 26  Dr. Seward's Diary 27  Mina Harker's JournalCHAPTER 1Jonathan Harker's Journal3 May. Bistritz.--Left Munich at 8:35 P.M., on 1st May, arriving atVienna early next morning; should have arrived at 6:46, but train wasan hour late.  Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from the glimpsewhich I got of it from the train and the little I could walk throughthe streets.  I feared to go very far from the station, as we hadarrived late and would start as near the correct time as possible.The impression I had was that we were leaving the West and entering theEast; the most western of splendid bridges over the Danube, which ishere of noble width and depth, took us among the traditions of Turkishrule.We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall to Klausenburgh.Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel Royale.  I had for dinner,or rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, whichwas very good but thirsty.  (Mem. get recipe for Mina.) I asked thewaiter, and he said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it wasa national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along theCarpathians.I found my smattering of German very useful here, indeed, I don't knowhow I should be able to get on without it.Having had some time at my disposal when in London, I had visited theBritish Museum, and made search among the books and maps in thelibrary regarding Transylvania; it had struck me that someforeknowledge of the country could hardly fail to have some importancein dealing with a nobleman of that country.I find that the district he named is in the extreme east of thecountry, just on the borders of three states, Transylvania, Moldavia,and Bukovina, in the midst of the Carpathian mountains; one of thewildest and least known portions of Europe.I was not able to light on any map or work giving the exact localityof the Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet tocompare with our own Ordance Survey Maps; but I found that Bistritz,the post town named by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-known place.  Ishall enter here some of my notes, as they may refresh my memory whenI talk over my travels with Mina.In the population of Transylvania there are four distinctnationalities:  Saxons in the South, and mixed with them the Wallachs,who are the descendants of the Dacians; Magyars in the West, andSzekelys in the East and North.  I am going among the latter, whoclaim to be descended from Attila and the Huns.  This may be so, forwhen the Magyars conquered the country in the eleventh century theyfound the Huns settled in it.I read that every known superstition in the world is gathered into thehorseshoe of the Carpathians, as if it were the centre of some sort ofimaginative whirlpool; if so my stay may be very interesting.  (Mem.,I must ask the Count all about them.)I did not sleep well, though my bed was comfortable enough, for I hadall sorts of queer dreams.  There was a dog howling all night under mywindow, which may have had something to do with it; or it may havebeen the paprika, for I had to drink up all the water in my carafe,and was still thirsty.  Towards morning I slept and was wakened by thecontinuous knocking at my door, so I guess I must have been sleepingsoundly then.I had for breakfast more paprika, and a sort of porridge of maizeflour which they said was "mamaliga", and egg-plant stuffed withforcemeat, a very excellent dish, which they call "impletata". (Mem.,get recipe for this also.)I had to hurry breakfast, for the train started a little before eight,or rather it ought to have done so, for after rushing to the stationat 7:30 I had to sit in the carriage for more than an hour before webegan to move.It seems to me that the further east you go the more unpunctual arethe trains.  What ought they to be in China?All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country which was full ofbeauty of every kind.  Sometimes we saw little towns or castles on thetop of steep hills such as we see in old missals; sometimes we ran byrivers and streams which seemed from the wide stony margin on eachside of them to be subject to great floods.  It takes a lot of water,and running strong, to sweep the outside edge of a river clear.At every station there were groups of people, sometimes crowds, and inall sorts of attire.  Some of them were just like the peasants at homeor those I saw coming through France and Germany, with short jackets,and round hats, and home-made trousers; but others were verypicturesque.The women looked pretty, except when you got near them, but they werevery clumsy about the waist.  They had all full white sleeves of somekind or other, and most of them had big belts with a lot of strips ofsomething fluttering from them like the dresses in a ballet, but ofcourse there were petticoats under them.The strangest figures we saw were the Slovaks, who were more barbarianthan the rest, with their big cow-boy hats, great baggy dirty-whitetrousers, white linen shirts, and enormous heavy leather belts, nearlya foot wide, all studded over with brass nails.  They wore high boots,with their trousers tucked into them, and had long black hair andheavy black moustaches.  They are very picturesque, but do not lookprepossessing.  On the stage they would be set down at once as someold Oriental band of brigands.  They are, however, I am told, veryharmless and rather wanting in natural self-assertion.It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to Bistritz, which isa very interesting old place.  Being practically on the frontier--forthe Borgo Pass leads from it into Bukovina--it has had a very stormyexistence, and it certainly shows marks of it.  Fifty years ago aseries of great fires took place, which made terrible havoc on fiveseparate occasions.  At the very beginning of the seventeenth centuryit underwent a siege of three weeks and lost 13,000 people, thecasualties of war proper being assisted by famine and disease.Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel, which Ifound, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for ofcourse I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country.I was evidently expected, for when I got near the door I faced acheery-looking elderly woman in the usual peasant dress--whiteundergarment with a long double apron, front, and back, of colouredstuff fitting almost too tight for modesty.  When I came close shebowed and said, "The Herr Englishman?""Yes," I said, "Jonathan Harker."She smiled, and gave some message to an elderly man in whiteshirtsleeves, who had followed her to the door.He went, but immediately returned with a letter:"My friend.--Welcome to the Carpathians.  I am anxiously expectingyou.  Sleep well tonight.  At three tomorrow the diligence willstart for Bukovina; a place on it is kept for you.  At the BorgoPass my carriage will await you and will bring you to me.  I trustthat your journey from London has been a happy one, and that youwill enjoy your stay in my beautiful land.--Your friend, Dracula."4 May--I found that my landlord had got a letter from the Count,directing him to secure the best place on the coach for me; but onmaking inquiries as to details he seemed somewhat reticent, andpretended that he could not understand my German.This could not be true, because up to then he had understood itperfectly; at least, he answered my questions exactly as if he did.He and his wife, the old lady who had received me, looked at eachother in a frightened sort of way.  He mumbled out that the money hadbeen sent in a letter, and that was all he knew.  When I asked him ifhe knew Count Dracula, and could tell me anything of his castle, bothhe and his wife crossed themselves, and, saying that they knew nothingat all, simply refused to speak further.  It was so near the time ofstarting that I had no time to ask anyone else, for it was all verymysterious and not by any means comforting.Just before I was leaving, the old lady came up to my room and said ina hysterical way:  "Must you go?  Oh!  Young Herr, must you go?"  Shewas in such an excited state that she seemed to have lost her grip ofwhat German she knew, and mixed it all up with some other languagewhich I did not know at all.  I was just able to follow her by askingmany questions.  When I told her that I must go at once, and that Iwas engaged on important business, she asked again:"Do you know what day it is?"  I answered that it was the fourth ofMay.  She shook her head as she said again:"Oh, yes!  I know that!  I know that, but do you know what day it is?"On my saying that I did not understand, she went on:"It is the eve of St. George's Day.  Do you not know that tonight,when the clock strikes midnight, all the evil things in the world willhave full sway?  Do you know where you are going, and what you aregoing to?"  She was in such evident distress that I tried to comforther, but without effect.  Finally, she went down on her knees andimplored me not to go; at least to wait a day or two before starting.It was all very ridiculous but I did not feel comfortable.  However,there was business to be done, and I could allow nothing to interferewith it.I tried to raise her up, and said, as gravely as I could, that Ithanked her, but my duty was imperative, and that I must go.She then rose and dried her eyes, and taking a crucifix from her neckoffered it to me.I did not know what to do, for, as an English Churchman, I have beentaught to regard such things as in some measure idolatrous, and yet itseemed so ungracious to refuse an old lady meaning so well and in sucha state of mind.She saw, I suppose, the doubt in my face, for she put the rosary roundmy neck and said, "For your mother's sake," and went out of the room.I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am waiting for thecoach, which is, of course, late; and the crucifix is still round myneck.Whether it is the old lady's fear, or the many ghostly traditions ofthis place, or the crucifix itself, I do not know, but I am notfeeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual.If this book should ever reach Mina before I do, let it bring mygoodbye.  Here comes the coach!5 May.  The Castle.--The gray of the morning has passed, and the sunis high over the distant horizon, which seems jagged, whether withtrees or hills I know not, for it is so far off that big things andlittle are mixed.I am not sleepy, and, as I am not to be called till I awake, naturallyI write till sleep comes.There are many odd things to put down, and, lest who reads them mayfancy that I dined too well before I left Bistritz, let me put down mydinner exactly.I dined on what they called "robber steak"--bits of bacon, onion, andbeef, seasoned with red pepper, and strung on sticks, and roasted overthe fire, in simple style of the London cat's meat!The wine was Golden Mediasch, which produces a queer sting on thetongue, which is, however, not disagreeable.I had only a couple of glasses of this, and nothing else.When I got on the coach, the driver had not taken his seat, and I sawhim talking to the landlady.They were evidently talking of me, for every now and then they lookedat me, and some of the people who were sitting on the bench outsidethe door--came and listened, and then looked at me, most of thempityingly.  I could hear a lot of words often repeated, queer words,for there were many nationalities in the crowd, so I quietly got mypolyglot dictionary from my bag and looked them out.I must say they were not cheering to me, for amongst them were"Ordog"--Satan, "Pokol"--hell, "stregoica"--witch, "vrolok" and"vlkoslak"--both mean the same thing, one being Slovak and the otherServian for something that is either werewolf or vampire.  (Mem., Imust ask the Count about these superstitions.)When we started, the crowd round the inn door, which had by this timeswelled to a considerable size, all made the sign of the cross andpointed two fingers towards me.With some difficulty, I got a fellow passenger to tell me what theymeant.  He would not answer at first, but on learning that I wasEnglish, he explained that it was a charm or guard against the evileye.This was not very pleasant for me, just starting for an unknown placeto meet an unknown man.  But everyone seemed so kind-hearted, and sosorrowful, and so sympathetic that I could not but be touched.I shall never forget the last glimpse which I had of the inn yard andits crowd of picturesque figures, all crossing themselves, as theystood round the wide archway, with its background of rich foliage ofoleander and orange trees in green tubs clustered in the centre of theyard.Then our driver, whose wide linen drawers covered the whole front ofthe boxseat,--"gotza" they call them--cracked his big whip over hisfour small horses, which ran abreast, and we set off on our journey.I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in the beauty ofthe scene as we drove along, although had I known the language, orrather languages, which my fellow-passengers were speaking, I mightnot have been able to throw them off so easily.  Before us lay a greensloping land full of forests and woods, with here and there steephills, crowned with clumps of trees or with farmhouses, the blankgable end to the road.  There was everywhere a bewildering mass offruit blossom--apple, plum, pear, cherry.  And as we drove by I couldsee the green grass under the trees spangled with the fallen petals.In and out amongst these green hills of what they call here the"Mittel Land" ran the road, losing itself as it swept round the grassycurve, or was shut out by the straggling ends of pine woods, whichhere and there ran down the hillsides like tongues of flame.  The roadwas rugged, but still we seemed to fly over it with a feverish haste.I could not understand then what the haste meant, but the driver wasevidently bent on losing no time in reaching Borgo Prund.  I was toldthat this road is in summertime excellent, but that it had not yetbeen put in order after the winter snows.  In this respect it isdifferent from the general run of roads in the Carpathians, for it isan old tradition that they are not to be kept in too good order.  Ofold the Hospadars would not repair them, lest the Turk should thinkthat they were preparing to bring in foreign troops, and so hasten thewar which was always really at loading point.Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose mighty slopesof forest up to the lofty steeps of the Carpathians themselves.  Rightand left of us they towered, with the afternoon sun falling full uponthem and bringing out all the glorious colours of this beautifulrange, deep blue and purple in the shadows of the peaks, green andbrown where grass and rock mingled, and an endless perspective ofjagged rock and pointed crags, till these were themselves lost in thedistance, where the snowy peaks rose grandly.  Here and there seemedmighty rifts in the mountains, through which, as the sun began tosink, we saw now and again the white gleam of falling water.  One ofmy companions touched my arm as we swept round the base of a hill andopened up the lofty, snow-covered peak of a mountain, which seemed, aswe wound on our serpentine way, to be right before us."Look!  Isten szek!"--"God's seat!"--and he crossed himself reverently.As we wound on our endless way, and the sun sank lower and lowerbehind us, the shadows of the evening began to creep round us.  Thiswas emphasized by the fact that the snowy mountain-top still held thesunset, and seemed to glow out with a delicate cool pink.  Here andthere we passed Cszeks and slovaks, all in picturesque attire, but Inoticed that goitre was painfully prevalent.  By the roadside weremany crosses, and as we swept by, my companions all crossedthemselves.  Here and there was a peasant man or woman kneeling beforea shrine, who did not even turn round as we approached, but seemed inthe self-surrender of devotion to have neither eyes nor ears for theouter world.  There were many things new to me.  For instance,hay-ricks in the trees, and here and there very beautiful masses ofweeping birch, their white stems shining like silver through thedelicate green of the leaves.Now and again we passed a leiter-wagon--the ordinary peasants'scart--with its long, snakelike vertebra, calculated to suit theinequalities of the road.  On this were sure to be seated quite agroup of homecoming peasants, the Cszeks with their white, and theSlovaks with their coloured sheepskins, the latter carryinglance-fashion their long staves, with axe at end.  As the evening fellit began to get very cold, and the growing twilight seemed to mergeinto one dark mistiness the gloom of the trees, oak, beech, and pine,though in the valleys which ran deep between the spurs of the hills,as we ascended through the Pass, the dark firs stood out here andthere against the background of late-lying snow.  Sometimes, as theroad was cut through the pine woods that seemed in the darkness to beclosing down upon us, great masses of greyness which here and therebestrewed the trees, produced a peculiarly weird and solemn effect,which carried on the thoughts and grim fancies engendered earlier inthe evening, when the falling sunset threw into strange relief theghost-like clouds which amongst the Carpathians seem to windceaselessly through the valleys.  Sometimes the hills were so steepthat, despite our driver's haste, the horses could only go slowly.  Iwished to get down and walk up them, as we do at home, but the driverwould not hear of it.  "No, no," he said.  "You must not walk here.The dogs are too fierce."  And then he added, with what he evidentlymeant for grim pleasantry--for he looked round to catch the approvingsmile of the rest--"And you may have enough of such matters before yougo to sleep."  The only stop he would make was a moment's pause tolight his lamps.When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement amongst thepassengers, and they kept speaking to him, one after the other, asthough urging him to further speed.  He lashed the horses unmercifullywith his long whip, and with wild cries of encouragement urged them onto further exertions.  Then through the darkness I could see a sort ofpatch of grey light ahead of us, as though there were a cleft in thehills.  The excitement of the passengers grew greater.  The crazycoach rocked on its great leather springs, and swayed like a boattossed on a stormy sea.  I had to hold on.  The road grew more level,and we appeared to fly along.  Then the mountains seemed to comenearer to us on each side and to frown down upon us.  We were enteringon the Borgo Pass.  One by one several of the passengers offered megifts, which they pressed upon me with an earnestness which would takeno denial.  These were certainly of an odd and varied kind, but eachwas given in simple good faith, with a kindly word, and a blessing,and that same strange mixture of fear-meaning movements which I hadseen outside the hotel at Bistritz--the sign of the cross and theguard against the evil eye.  Then, as we flew along, the driver leanedforward, and on each side the passengers, craning over the edge of thecoach, peered eagerly into the darkness.  It was evident thatsomething very exciting was either happening or expected, but though Iasked each passenger, no one would give me the slightest explanation.This state of excitement kept on for some little time.  And at last wesaw before us the Pass opening out on the eastern side.  There weredark, rolling clouds overhead, and in the air the heavy, oppressivesense of thunder.  It seemed as though the mountain range hadseparated two atmospheres, and that now we had got into the thunderousone.  I was now myself looking out for the conveyance which was totake me to the Count.  Each moment I expected to see the glare oflamps through the blackness, but all was dark.  The only light was theflickering rays of our own lamps, in which the steam from ourhard-driven horses rose in a white cloud.  We could see now the sandyroad lying white before us, but there was on it no sign of a vehicle.The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness, which seemed to mockmy own disappointment.  I was already thinking what I had best do,when the driver, looking at his watch, said to the others somethingwhich I could hardly hear, it was spoken so quietly and in so low atone, I thought it was "An hour less than the time."  Then turning tome, he spoke in German worse than my own."There is no carriage here.  The Herr is not expected after all.  Hewill now come on to Bukovina, and return tomorrow or the next day,better the next day."  Whilst he was speaking the horses began toneigh and snort and plunge wildly, so that the driver had to hold themup.  Then, amongst a chorus of screams from the peasants and auniversal crossing of themselves, a caleche, with four horses, droveup behind us, overtook us, and drew up beside the coach.  I could seefrom the flash of our lamps as the rays fell on them, that the horseswere coal-black and splendid animals.  They were driven by a tall man,with a long brown beard and a great black hat, which seemed to hidehis face from us.  I could only see the gleam of a pair of very brighteyes, which seemed red in the lamplight, as he turned to us.He said to the driver, "You are early tonight, my friend."The man stammered in reply, "The English Herr was in a hurry."To which the stranger replied, "That is why, I suppose, you wished himto go on to Bukovina.  You cannot deceive me, my friend.  I know toomuch, and my horses are swift."As he spoke he smiled, and the lamplight fell on a hard-looking mouth,with very red lips and sharp-looking teeth, as white as ivory.  One ofmy companions whispered to another the line from Burger's "Lenore"."Denn die Todten reiten Schnell."  ("For the dead travel fast.")The strange driver evidently heard the words, for he looked up with agleaming smile.  The passenger turned his face away, at the same timeputting out his two fingers and crossing himself.  "Give me the Herr'sluggage," said the driver, and with exceeding alacrity my bags werehanded out and put in the caleche.  Then I descended from the side ofthe coach, as the caleche was close alongside, the driver helping mewith a hand which caught my arm in a grip of steel.  His strength musthave been prodigious.Without a word he shook his reins, the horses turned, and we sweptinto the darkness of the pass.  As I looked back I saw the steam fromthe horses of the coach by the light of the lamps, and projectedagainst it the figures of my late companions crossing themselves.Then the driver cracked his whip and called to his horses, and offthey swept on their way to Bukovina.  As they sank into the darkness Ifelt a strange chill, and a lonely feeling come over me.  But a cloakwas thrown over my shoulders, and a rug across my knees, and thedriver said in excellent German--"The night is chill, mein Herr, andmy master the Count bade me take all care of you.  There is a flask ofslivovitz (the plum brandy of the country) underneath the seat, if youshould require it."I did not take any, but it was a comfort to know it was there all thesame.  I felt a little strangely, and not a little frightened.  Ithink had there been any alternative I should have taken it, insteadof prosecuting that unknown night journey.  The carriage went at ahard pace straight along, then we made a complete turn and went alonganother straight road.  It seemed to me that we were simply going overand over the same ground again, and so I took note of some salientpoint, and found that this was so.  I would have liked to have askedthe driver what this all meant, but I really feared to do so, for Ithought that, placed as I was, any protest would have had no effect incase there had been an intention to delay.By-and-by, however, as I was curious to know how time was passing, Istruck a match, and by its flame looked at my watch.  It was within afew minutes of midnight.  This gave me a sort of shock, for I supposethe general superstition about midnight was increased by my recentexperiences.  I waited with a sick feeling of suspense.Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far down the road, along, agonized wailing, as if from fear.  The sound was taken up byanother dog, and then another and another, till, borne on the windwhich now sighed softly through the Pass, a wild howling began, whichseemed to come from all over the country, as far as the imaginationcould grasp it through the gloom of the night.At the first howl the horses began to strain and rear, but the driverspoke to them soothingly, and they quieted down, but shivered andsweated as though after a runaway from sudden fright.  Then, far offin the distance, from the mountains on each side of us began a louderand a sharper howling, that of wolves, which affected both the horsesand myself in the same way.  For I was minded to jump from the calecheand run, whilst they reared again and plunged madly, so that thedriver had to use all his great strength to keep them from bolting.In a few minutes, however, my own ears got accustomed to the sound,and the horses so far became quiet that the driver was able to descendand to stand before them.He petted and soothed them, and whispered something in their ears, asI have heard of horse-tamers doing, and with extraordinary effect, forunder his caresses they became quite manageable again, though theystill trembled.  The driver again took his seat, and shaking hisreins, started off at a great pace.  This time, after going to the farside of the Pass, he suddenly turned down a narrow roadway which ransharply to the right.Soon we were hemmed in with trees, which in places arched right overthe roadway till we passed as through a tunnel.  And again greatfrowning rocks guarded us boldly on either side.  Though we were inshelter, we could hear the rising wind, for it moaned and whistledthrough the rocks, and the branches of the trees crashed together aswe swept along.  It grew colder and colder still, and fine, powderysnow began to fall, so that soon we and all around us were coveredwith a white blanket.  The keen wind still carried the howling of thedogs, though this grew fainter as we went on our way.  The baying ofthe wolves sounded nearer and nearer, as though they were closinground on us from every side.  I grew dreadfully afraid, and the horsesshared my fear.  The driver, however, was not in the least disturbed.He kept turning his head to left and right, but I could not seeanything through the darkness.Suddenly, away on our left I saw a faint flickering blue flame.  Thedriver saw it at the same moment.  He at once checked the horses, and,jumping to the ground, disappeared into the darkness.  I did not knowwhat to do, the less as the howling of the wolves grew closer.  Butwhile I wondered, the driver suddenly appeared again, and without aword took his seat, and we resumed our journey.  I think I must havefallen asleep and kept dreaming of the incident, for it seemed to berepeated endlessly, and now looking back, it is like a sort of awfulnightmare.  Once the flame appeared so near the road, that even in thedarkness around us I could watch the driver's motions.  He wentrapidly to where the blue flame arose, it must have been very faint,for it did not seem to illumine the place around it at all, andgathering a few stones, formed them into some device.Once there appeared a strange optical effect.  When he stood betweenme and the flame he did not obstruct it, for I could see its ghostlyflicker all the same.  This startled me, but as the effect was onlymomentary, I took it that my eyes deceived me straining through thedarkness.  Then for a time there were no blue flames, and we spedonwards through the gloom, with the howling of the wolves around us,as though they were following in a moving circle.At last there came a time when the driver went further afield than hehad yet gone, and during his absence, the horses began to trembleworse than ever and to snort and scream with fright.  I could not seeany cause for it, for the howling of the wolves had ceased altogether.But just then the moon, sailing through the black clouds, appearedbehind the jagged crest of a beetling, pine-clad rock, and by itslight I saw around us a ring of wolves, with white teeth and lollingred tongues, with long, sinewy limbs and shaggy hair.  They were ahundred times more terrible in the grim silence which held them thaneven when they howled.  For myself, I felt a sort of paralysis offear.  It is only when a man feels himself face to face with suchhorrors that he can understand their true import.All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moonlight had hadsome peculiar effect on them.  The horses jumped about and reared, andlooked helplessly round with eyes that rolled in a way painful tosee.  But the living ring of terror encompassed them on every side,and they had perforce to remain within it.  I called to the coachmanto come, for it seemed to me that our only chance was to try to breakout through the ring and to aid his approach, I shouted and beat theside of the caleche, hoping by the noise to scare the wolves from theside, so as to give him a chance of reaching the trap.  How he camethere, I know not, but I heard his voice raised in a tone of imperiouscommand, and looking towards the sound, saw him stand in the roadway.As he swept his long arms, as though brushing aside some impalpableobstacle, the wolves fell back and back further still.  Just then aheavy cloud passed across the face of the moon, so that we were againin darkness.When I could see again the driver was climbing into the caleche, andthe wolves disappeared.  This was all so strange and uncanny that adreadful fear came upon me, and I was afraid to speak or move.  Thetime seemed interminable as we swept on our way, now in almostcomplete darkness, for the rolling clouds obscured the moon.We kept on ascending, with occasional periods of quick descent, but inthe main always ascending.  Suddenly, I became conscious of the factthat the driver was in the act of pulling up the horses in thecourtyard of a vast ruined castle, from whose tall black windows cameno ray of light, and whose broken battlements showed a jagged lineagainst the sky.CHAPTER 2Jonathan Harker's Journal Continued5 May.--I must have been asleep, for certainly if I had been fullyawake I must have noticed the approach of such a remarkable place.  Inthe gloom the courtyard looked of considerable size, and as severaldark ways led from it under great round arches, it perhaps seemedbigger than it really is.  I have not yet been able to see it bydaylight.When the caleche stopped, the driver jumped down and held out his handto assist me to alight.  Again I could not but notice his prodigiousstrength.  His hand actually seemed like a steel vice that could havecrushed mine if he had chosen.  Then he took my traps, and placed themon the ground beside me as I stood close to a great door, old andstudded with large iron nails, and set in a projecting doorway ofmassive stone.  I could see even in the dim light that the stone wasmassively carved, but that the carving had been much worn by time andweather.  As I stood, the driver jumped again into his seat and shookthe reins.  The horses started forward, and trap and all disappeareddown one of the dark openings.I stood in silence where I was, for I did not know what to do.  Ofbell or knocker there was no sign.  Through these frowning walls anddark window openings it was not likely that my voice could penetrate.The time I waited seemed endless, and I felt doubts and fears crowdingupon me.  What sort of place had I come to, and among what kind ofpeople?  What sort of grim adventure was it on which I had embarked?Was this a customary incident in the life of a solicitor's clerk sentout to explain the purchase of a London estate to a foreigner?Solicitor's clerk!  Mina would not like that.  Solicitor, for justbefore leaving London I got word that my examination was successful,and I am now a full-blown solicitor!  I began to rub my eyes and pinchmyself to see if I were awake.  It all seemed like a horriblenightmare to me, and I expected that I should suddenly awake, and findmyself at home, with the dawn struggling in through the windows, as Ihad now and again felt in the morning after a day of overwork.  But myflesh answered the pinching test, and my eyes were not to bedeceived.  I was indeed awake and among the Carpathians.  All I coulddo now was to be patient, and to wait the coming of morning.Just as I had come to this conclusion I heard a heavy step approachingbehind the great door, and saw through the chinks the gleam of acoming light.  Then there was the sound of rattling chains and theclanking of massive bolts drawn back.  A key was turned with the loudgrating noise of long disuse, and the great door swung back.Within, stood a tall old man, clean shaven save for a long whitemoustache, and clad in black from head to foot, without a single speckof colour about him anywhere.  He held in his hand an antique silverlamp, in which the flame burned without a chimney or globe of anykind, throwing long quivering shadows as it flickered in the draughtof the open door.  The old man motioned me in with his right hand witha courtly gesture, saying in excellent English, but with a strangeintonation."Welcome to my house!  Enter freely and of your own free will!"  Hemade no motion of stepping to meet me, but stood like a statue, asthough his gesture of welcome had fixed him into stone.  The instant,however, that I had stepped over the threshold, he moved impulsivelyforward, and holding out his hand grasped mine with a strength whichmade me wince, an effect which was not lessened by the fact that itseemed cold as ice, more like the hand of a dead than a living man.Again he said,"Welcome to my house!  Enter freely.  Go safely, and leave somethingof the happiness you bring!"  The strength of the handshake was somuch akin to that which I had noticed in the driver, whose face I hadnot seen, that for a moment I doubted if it were not the same personto whom I was speaking.  So to make sure, I said interrogatively,"Count Dracula?"He bowed in a courtly way as he replied, "I am Dracula, and I bid youwelcome, Mr. Harker, to my house.  Come in, the night air is chill,and you must need to eat and rest."  As he was speaking, he put the lampon a bracket on the wall, and stepping out, took my luggage.  He hadcarried it in before I could forestall him.  I protested, but heinsisted."Nay, sir, you are my guest.  It is late, and my people are notavailable.  Let me see to your comfort myself."  He insisted on carryingmy traps along the passage, and then up a great winding stair, andalong another great passage, on whose stone floor our steps rangheavily.  At the end of this he threw open a heavy door, and Irejoiced to see within a well-lit room in which a table was spread forsupper, and on whose mighty hearth a great fire of logs, freshlyreplenished, flamed and flared.The Count halted, putting down my bags, closed the door, and crossingthe room, opened another door, which led into a small octagonal roomlit by a single lamp, and seemingly without a window of any sort.Passing through this, he opened another door, and motioned me toenter.  It was a welcome sight.  For here was a great bedroom welllighted and warmed with another log fire, also added to but lately,for the top logs were fresh, which sent a hollow roar up the widechimney.  The Count himself left my luggage inside and withdrew,saying, before he closed the door."You will need, after your journey, to refresh yourself by making yourtoilet.  I trust you will find all you wish.  When you are ready, comeinto the other room, where you will find your supper prepared."The light and warmth and the Count's courteous welcome seemed to havedissipated all my doubts and fears.  Having then reached my normalstate, I discovered that I was half famished with hunger.  So making ahasty toilet, I went into the other room.I found supper already laid out.  My host, who stood on one side ofthe great fireplace, leaning against the stonework, made a gracefulwave of his hand to the table, and said,"I pray you, be seated and sup how you please.  You will I trust,excuse me that I do not join you, but I have dined already, and I donot sup."I handed to him the sealed letter which Mr. Hawkins had entrusted tome.  He opened it and read it gravely.  Then, with a charming smile,he handed it to me to read.  One passage of it, at least, gave me athrill of pleasure."I must regret that an attack of gout, from which malady I am aconstant sufferer, forbids absolutely any travelling on my part forsome time to come.  But I am happy to say I can send a sufficientsubstitute, one in whom I have every possible confidence.  He is ayoung man, full of energy and talent in his own way, and of a veryfaithful disposition.  He is discreet and silent, and has grown intomanhood in my service.  He shall be ready to attend on you when youwill during his stay, and shall take your instructions in allmatters."The count himself came forward and took off the cover of a dish, and Ifell to at once on an excellent roast chicken.  This, with some cheeseand a salad and a bottle of old tokay, of which I had two glasses, wasmy supper.  During the time I was eating it the Count asked me manyquestions as to my journey, and I told him by degrees all I hadexperienced.By this time I had finished my supper, and by my host's desire haddrawn up a chair by the fire and begun to smoke a cigar which heoffered me, at the same time excusing himself that he did not smoke.I had now an opportunity of observing him, and found him of a verymarked physiognomy.His face was a strong, a very strong, aquiline, with high bridge ofthe thin nose and peculiarly arched nostrils, with lofty domedforehead, and hair growing scantily round the temples but profuselyelsewhere.  His eyebrows were very massive, almost meeting over thenose, and with bushy hair that seemed to curl in its own profusion.The mouth, so far as I could see it under the heavy moustache, wasfixed and rather cruel-looking, with peculiarly sharp white teeth.These protruded over the lips, whose remarkable ruddiness showedastonishing vitality in a man of his years.  For the rest, his earswere pale, and at the tops extremely pointed.  The chin was broad andstrong, and the cheeks firm though thin.  The general effect was oneof extraordinary pallor.Hitherto I had noticed the backs of his hands as they lay on his kneesin the firelight, and they had seemed rather white and fine.  Butseeing them now close to me, I could not but notice that they wererather coarse, broad, with squat fingers.  Strange to say, there werehairs in the centre of the palm.  The nails were long and fine, andcut to a sharp point.  As the Count leaned over me and his handstouched me, I could not repress a shudder.  It may have been that hisbreath was rank, but a horrible feeling of nausea came over me, which,do what I would, I could not conceal.The Count, evidently noticing it, drew back.  And with a grim sort ofsmile, which showed more than he had yet done his protruberant teeth,sat himself down again on his own side of the fireplace.  We were bothsilent for a while, and as I looked towards the window I saw the firstdim streak of the coming dawn.  There seemed a strange stillness overeverything.  But as I listened, I heard as if from down below in thevalley the howling of many wolves.  The Count's eyes gleamed, and hesaid."Listen to them, the children of the night.  What music they make!"Seeing, I suppose, some expression in my face strange to him, headded, "Ah, sir, you dwellers in the city cannot enter into thefeelings of the hunter."  Then he rose and said."But you must be tired.  Your bedroom is all ready, and tomorrow youshall sleep as late as you will.  I have to be away till theafternoon, so sleep well and dream well!"  With a courteous bow, heopened for me himself the door to the octagonal room, and I entered mybedroom.I am all in a sea of wonders.  I doubt.  I fear.  I think strangethings, which I dare not confess to my own soul.  God keep me, if onlyfor the sake of those dear to me!7 May.--It is again early morning, but I have rested and enjoyed thelast twenty-four hours.  I slept till late in the day, and awoke of myown accord.  When I had dressed myself I went into the room where wehad supped, and found a cold breakfast laid out, with coffee kept hotby the pot being placed on the hearth.  There was a card on the table,on which was written--"I have to be absent for a while.  Do not waitfor me.  D."  I set to and enjoyed a hearty meal.  When I had done, Ilooked for a bell, so that I might let the servants know I hadfinished, but I could not find one.  There are certainly odddeficiencies in the house, considering the extraordinary evidences ofwealth which are round me.  The table service is of gold, and sobeautifully wrought that it must be of immense value.  The curtainsand upholstery of the chairs and sofas and the hangings of my bed areof the costliest and most beautiful fabrics, and must have been offabulous value when they were made, for they are centuries old, thoughin excellent order.  I saw something like them in Hampton Court, butthey were worn and frayed and moth-eaten.  But still in none of therooms is there a mirror.  There is not even a toilet glass on mytable, and I had to get the little shaving glass from my bag before Icould either shave or brush my hair.  I have not yet seen a servantanywhere, or heard a sound near the castle except the howling ofwolves.  Some time after I had finished my meal, I do not know whetherto call it breakfast or dinner, for it was between five and sixo'clock when I had it, I looked about for something to read, for I didnot like to go about the castle until I had asked the Count'spermission.  There was absolutely nothing in the room, book,newspaper, or even writing materials, so I opened another door in theroom and found a sort of library.  The door opposite mine I tried, butfound locked.In the library I found, to my great delight, a vast number of Englishbooks, whole shelves full of them, and bound volumes of magazines andnewspapers.  A table in the centre was littered with English magazinesand newspapers, though none of them were of very recent date.  Thebooks were of the most varied kind, history, geography, politics,political economy, botany, geology, law, all relating to England andEnglish life and customs and manners.  There were even such books ofreference as the London Directory, the "Red" and "Blue" books,Whitaker's Almanac, the Army and Navy Lists, and it somehow gladdenedmy heart to see it, the Law List.Whilst I was looking at the books, the door opened, and the Countentered.  He saluted me in a hearty way, and hoped that I had had agood night's rest.  Then he went on."I am glad you found your way in here, for I am sure there is muchthat will interest you.  These companions," and he laid his hand onsome of the books, "have been good friends to me, and for some yearspast, ever since I had the idea of going to London, have given memany, many hours of pleasure.  Through them I have come to know yourgreat England, and to know her is to love her.  I long to go throughthe crowded streets of your mighty London, to be in the midst of thewhirl and rush of humanity, to share its life, its change, its death,and all that makes it what it is.  But alas!  As yet I only know yourtongue through books.  To you, my friend, I look that I know it tospeak.""But, Count," I said, "You know and speak English thoroughly!"  Hebowed gravely."I thank you, my friend, for your all too-flattering estimate, but yetI fear that I am but a little way on the road I would travel.  True, Iknow the grammar and the words, but yet I know not how to speak them.""Indeed," I said, "You speak excellently.""Not so," he answered.  "Well, I know that, did I move and speak inyour London, none there are who would not know me for a stranger.  Thatis not enough for me.  Here I am noble.  I am a Boyar.  The commonpeople know me, and I am master.  But a stranger in a strange land, heis no one.  Men know him not, and to know not is to care not for.  Iam content if I am like the rest, so that no man stops if he sees me,or pauses in his speaking if he hears my words, 'Ha, ha!  A stranger!'I have been so long master that I would be master still, or at leastthat none other should be master of me.  You come to me not alone asagent of my friend Peter Hawkins, of Exeter, to tell me all about mynew estate in London.  You shall, I trust, rest here with me a while,so that by our talking I may learn the English intonation.  And Iwould that you tell me when I make error, even of the smallest, in myspeaking.  I am sorry that I had to be away so long today, but youwill, I know forgive one who has so many important affairs in hand."Of course I said all I could about being willing, and asked if I mightcome into that room when I chose.  He answered, "Yes, certainly," andadded."You may go anywhere you wish in the castle, except where the doorsare locked, where of course you will not wish to go.  There is reasonthat all things are as they are, and did you see with my eyes and knowwith my knowledge, you would perhaps better understand."  I said I wassure of this, and then he went on."We are in Transylvania, and Transylvania is not England.  Our waysare not your ways, and there shall be to you many strange things.  Nay,from what you have told me of your experiences already, you knowsomething of what strange things there may be."This led to much conversation, and as it was evident that he wanted totalk, if only for talking's sake, I asked him many questions regardingthings that had already happened to me or come within my notice.Sometimes he sheered off the subject, or turned the conversation bypretending not to understand, but generally he answered all I askedmost frankly.  Then as time went on, and I had got somewhat bolder, Iasked him of some of the strange things of the preceding night, as forinstance, why the coachman went to the places where he had seen theblue flames.  He then explained to me that it was commonly believedthat on a certain night of the year, last night, in fact, when allevil spirits are supposed to have unchecked sway, a blue flame is seenover any place where treasure has been concealed."That treasure has been hidden," he went on, "in the region throughwhich you came last night, there can be but little doubt.  For it wasthe ground fought over for centuries by the Wallachian, the Saxon, andthe Turk.  Why, there is hardly a foot of soil in all this region thathas not been enriched by the blood of men, patriots or invaders.  Inthe old days there were stirring times, when the Austrian and theHungarian came up in hordes, and the patriots went out to meet them,men and women, the aged and the children too, and waited their comingon the rocks above the passes, that they might sweep destruction onthem with their artificial avalanches.  When the invader wastriumphant he found but little, for whatever there was had beensheltered in the friendly soil.""But how," said I, "can it have remained so long undiscovered, whenthere is a sure index to it if men will but take the trouble to look?"The Count smiled, and as his lips ran back over his gums, the long,sharp, canine teeth showed out strangely.  He answered:"Because your peasant is at heart a coward and a fool!  Those flamesonly appear on one night, and on that night no man of this land will,if he can help it, stir without his doors.  And, dear sir, even if hedid he would not know what to do.  Why, even the peasant that you tellme of who marked the place of the flame would not know where to lookin daylight even for his own work.  Even you would not, I dare besworn, be able to find these places again?""There you are right," I said.  "I know no more than the dead whereeven to look for them."  Then we drifted into other matters."Come," he said at last, "tell me of London and of the house which youhave procured for me."  With an apology for my remissness, I went intomy own room to get the papers from my bag.  Whilst I was placing themin order I heard a rattling of china and silver in the next room, andas I passed through, noticed that the table had been cleared and thelamp lit, for it was by this time deep into the dark.  The lamps werealso lit in the study or library, and I found the Count lying on thesofa, reading, of all things in the world, an English Bradshaw'sGuide.  When I came in he cleared the books and papers from the table,and with him I went into plans and deeds and figures of all sorts.  Hewas interested in everything, and asked me a myriad questions aboutthe place and its surroundings.  He clearly had studied beforehand allhe could get on the subject of the neighbourhood, for he evidently atthe end knew very much more than I did.  When I remarked this, heanswered."Well, but, my friend, is it not needful that I should?  When I gothere I shall be all alone, and my friend Harker Jonathan, nay, pardonme.  I fall into my country's habit of putting your patronymic first,my friend Jonathan Harker will not be by my side to correct and aidme.  He will be in Exeter, miles away, probably working at papers ofthe law with my other friend, Peter Hawkins.  So!"We went thoroughly into the business of the purchase of the estate atPurfleet.  When I had told him the facts and got his signature to thenecessary papers, and had written a letter with them ready to post toMr. Hawkins, he began to ask me how I had come across so suitable aplace.  I read to him the notes which I had made at the time, andwhich I inscribe here."At Purfleet, on a byroad, I came across just such a place as seemedto be required, and where was displayed a dilapidated notice that theplace was for sale.  It was surrounded by a high wall, of ancientstructure, built of heavy stones, and has not been repaired for alarge number of years.  The closed gates are of heavy old oak andiron, all eaten with rust."The estate is called Carfax, no doubt a corruption of the old QuatreFace, as the house is four sided, agreeing with the cardinal points ofthe compass.  It contains in all some twenty acres, quite surroundedby the solid stone wall above mentioned.  There are many trees on it,which make it in places gloomy, and there is a deep, dark-looking pondor small lake, evidently fed by some springs, as the water is clearand flows away in a fair-sized stream.  The house is very large and ofall periods back, I should say, to mediaeval times, for one part is ofstone immensely thick, with only a few windows high up and heavilybarred with iron.  It looks like part of a keep, and is close to anold chapel or church.  I could not enter it, as I had not the key ofthe door leading to it from the house, but I have taken with my Kodakviews of it from various points.  The house had been added to, but ina very straggling way, and I can only guess at the amount of ground itcovers, which must be very great.  There are but few houses close athand, one being a very large house only recently added to and formedinto a private lunatic asylum.  It is not, however, visible from thegrounds."When I had finished, he said, "I am glad that it is old and big.  Imyself am of an old family, and to live in a new house would kill me.A house cannot be made habitable in a day, and after all, how few daysgo to make up a century.  I rejoice also that there is a chapel of oldtimes.  We Transylvanian nobles love not to think that our bones maylie amongst the common dead.  I seek not gaiety nor mirth, not thebright voluptuousness of much sunshine and sparkling waters whichplease the young and gay.  I am no longer young, and my heart, throughweary years of mourning over the dead, is not attuned to mirth.  Moreover,the walls of my castle are broken.  The shadows are many, and the windbreathes cold through the broken battlements and casements.  I lovethe shade and the shadow, and would be alone with my thoughts when Imay."  Somehow his words and his look did not seem to accord, or elseit was that his cast of face made his smile look malignant andsaturnine.Presently, with an excuse, he left me, asking me to pull my paperstogether.  He was some little time away, and I began to look at someof the books around me.  One was an atlas, which I found openednaturally to England, as if that map had been much used.  On lookingat it I found in certain places little rings marked, and on examiningthese I noticed that one was near London on the east side, manifestlywhere his new estate was situated.  The other two were Exeter, andWhitby on the Yorkshire coast.It was the better part of an hour when the Count returned.  "Aha!" hesaid.  "Still at your books?  Good!  But you must not work always.Come!  I am informed that your supper is ready."  He took my arm, andwe went into the next room, where I found an excellent supper ready onthe table.  The Count again excused himself, as he had dined out onhis being away from home.  But he sat as on the previous night, andchatted whilst I ate.  After supper I smoked, as on the last evening,and the Count stayed with me, chatting and asking questions on everyconceivable subject, hour after hour.  I felt that it was getting verylate indeed, but I did not say anything, for I felt under obligationto meet my host's wishes in every way.  I was not sleepy, as the longsleep yesterday had fortified me, but I could not help experiencingthat chill which comes over one at the coming of the dawn, which islike, in its way, the turn of the tide.  They say that people who arenear death die generally at the change to dawn or at the turn of thetide.  Anyone who has when tired, and tied as it were to his post,experienced this change in the atmosphere can well believe it.  All atonce we heard the crow of the cock coming up with preternaturalshrillness through the clear morning air.Count Dracula, jumping to his feet, said, "Why there is the morningagain!  How remiss I am to let you stay up so long.  You must makeyour conversation regarding my dear new country of England lessinteresting, so that I may not forget how time flies by us," and witha courtly bow, he quickly left me.I went into my room and drew the curtains, but there was little tonotice.  My window opened into the courtyard, all I could see was thewarm grey of quickening sky.  So I pulled the curtains again, and havewritten of this day.8 May.--I began to fear as I wrote in this book that I was getting toodiffuse.  But now I am glad that I went into detail from the first,for there is something so strange about this place and all in it thatI cannot but feel uneasy.  I wish I were safe out of it, or that I hadnever come.  It may be that this strange night existence is telling onme, but would that that were all!  If there were any one to talk to Icould bear it, but there is no one.  I have only the Count to speakwith, and he--I fear I am myself the only living soul within theplace.  Let me be prosaic so far as facts can be.  It will help me tobear up, and imagination must not run riot with me.  If it does I amlost.  Let me say at once how I stand, or seem to.I only slept a few hours when I went to bed, and feeling that I couldnot sleep any more, got up.  I had hung my shaving glass by thewindow, and was just beginning to shave.  Suddenly I felt a hand on myshoulder, and heard the Count's voice saying to me, "Good morning."  Istarted, for it amazed me that I had not seen him, since thereflection of the glass covered the whole room behind me.  In startingI had cut myself slightly, but did not notice it at the moment.  Havinganswered the Count's salutation, I turned to the glass again to seehow I had been mistaken.  This time there could be no error, for theman was close to me, and I could see him over my shoulder.  But therewas no reflection of him in the mirror!  The whole room behind me wasdisplayed, but there was no sign of a man in it, except myself.This was startling, and coming on the top of so many strange things,was beginning to increase that vague feeling of uneasiness which Ialways have when the Count is near.  But at the instant I saw that thecut had bled a little, and the blood was trickling over my chin.  Ilaid down the razor, turning as I did so half round to look for somesticking plaster.  When the Count saw my face, his eyes blazed with asort of demoniac fury, and he suddenly made a grab at my throat.  Idrew away and his hand touched the string of beads which held thecrucifix.  It made an instant change in him, for the fury passed soquickly that I could hardly believe that it was ever there."Take care," he said, "take care how you cut yourself.  It is moredangerous that you think in this country."  Then seizing the shavingglass, he went on, "And this is the wretched thing that has done themischief.  It is a foul bauble of man's vanity.  Away with it!"  Andopening the window with one wrench of his terrible hand, he flung outthe glass, which was shattered into a thousand pieces on the stones ofthe courtyard far below.  Then he withdrew without a word.  It is veryannoying, for I do not see how I am to shave, unless in my watch-caseor the bottom of the shaving pot, which is fortunately of metal.When I went into the dining room, breakfast was prepared, but I couldnot find the Count anywhere.  So I breakfasted alone.  It is strangethat as yet I have not seen the Count eat or drink.  He must be a verypeculiar man!  After breakfast I did a little exploring in thecastle.  I went out on the stairs, and found a room looking towardsthe South.The view was magnificent, and from where I stood there was everyopportunity of seeing it.  The castle is on the very edge of aterrific precipice.  A stone falling from the window would fall athousand feet without touching anything!  As far as the eye can reachis a sea of green tree tops, with occasionally a deep rift where thereis a chasm.  Here and there are silver threads where the rivers windin deep gorges through the forests.But I am not in heart to describe beauty, for when I had seen the viewI explored further.  Doors, doors, doors everywhere, and all lockedand bolted.  In no place save from the windows in the castle walls isthere an available exit.  The castle is a veritable prison, and I am aprisoner!CHAPTER 3Jonathan Harker's Journal ContinuedWhen I found that I was a prisoner a sort of wild feeling came overme.  I rushed up and down the stairs, trying every door and peeringout of every window I could find, but after a little the conviction ofmy helplessness overpowered all other feelings.  When I look backafter a few hours I think I must have been mad for the time, for Ibehaved much as a rat does in a trap.  When, however, the convictionhad come to me that I was helpless I sat down quietly, as quietly as Ihave ever done anything in my life, and began to think over what wasbest to be done.  I am thinking still, and as yet have come to nodefinite conclusion.  Of one thing only am I certain.  That it is nouse making my ideas known to the Count.  He knows well that I amimprisoned, and as he has done it himself, and has doubtless his ownmotives for it, he would only deceive me if I trusted him fully withthe facts.  So far as I can see, my only plan will be to keep myknowledge and my fears to myself, and my eyes open.  I am, I know,either being deceived, like a baby, by my own fears, or else I am indesperate straits, and if the latter be so, I need, and shall need,all my brains to get through.I had hardly come to this conclusion when I heard the great door belowshut, and knew that the Count had returned.  He did not come at onceinto the library, so I went cautiously to my own room and found himmaking the bed.  This was odd, but only confirmed what I had all alongthought, that there are no servants in the house.  When later I sawhim through the chink of the hinges of the door laying the table inthe dining room, I was assured of it.  For if he does himself allthese menial offices, surely it is proof that there is no one else inthe castle, it must have been the Count himself who was the driver ofthe coach that brought me here.  This is a terrible thought, for ifso, what does it mean that he could control the wolves, as he did, byonly holding up his hand for silence?  How was it that all the peopleat Bistritz and on the coach had some terrible fear for me?  Whatmeant the giving of the crucifix, of the garlic, of the wild rose, ofthe mountain ash?Bless that good, good woman who hung the crucifix round my neck!  Forit is a comfort and a strength to me whenever I touch it.  It is oddthat a thing which I have been taught to regard with disfavour and asidolatrous should in a time of loneliness and trouble be of help.  Isit that there is something in the essence of the thing itself, or thatit is a medium, a tangible help, in conveying memories of sympathy andcomfort?  Some time, if it may be, I must examine this matter and tryto make up my mind about it.  In the meantime I must find out all Ican about Count Dracula, as it may help me to understand.  Tonight hemay talk of himself, if I turn the conversation that way.  I must bevery careful, however, not to awake his suspicion.Midnight.--I have had a long talk with the Count.  I asked him a fewquestions on Transylvania history, and he warmed up to the subjectwonderfully.  In his speaking of things and people, and especially ofbattles, he spoke as if he had been present at them all.  This heafterwards explained by saying that to a Boyar the pride of his houseand name is his own pride, that their glory is his glory, that theirfate is his fate.  Whenever he spoke of his house he always said "we",and spoke almost in the plural, like a king speaking.  I wish I couldput down all he said exactly as he said it, for to me it was mostfascinating.  It seemed to have in it a whole history of the country.He grew excited as he spoke, and walked about the room pulling hisgreat white moustache and grasping anything on which he laid his handsas though he would crush it by main strength.  One thing he said whichI shall put down as nearly as I can, for it tells in its way the storyof his race."We Szekelys have a right to be proud, for in our veins flows theblood of many brave races who fought as the lion fights, for lordship.Here, in the whirlpool of European races, the Ugric tribe bore downfrom Iceland the fighting spirit which Thor and Wodin gave them, whichtheir Berserkers displayed to such fell intent on the seaboards ofEurope, aye, and of Asia and Africa too, till the peoples thought thatthe werewolves themselves had come.  Here, too, when they came, theyfound the Huns, whose warlike fury had swept the earth like a livingflame, till the dying peoples held that in their veins ran the bloodof those old witches, who, expelled from Scythia had mated with thedevils in the desert.  Fools, fools!  What devil or what witch wasever so great as Attila, whose blood is in these veins?"  He held uphis arms.  "Is it a wonder that we were a conquering race, that wewere proud, that when the Magyar, the Lombard, the Avar, the Bulgar,or the Turk poured his thousands on our frontiers, we drove them back?Is it strange that when Arpad and his legions swept through theHungarian fatherland he found us here when he reached the frontier,that the Honfoglalas was completed there?  And when the Hungarianflood swept eastward, the Szekelys were claimed as kindred by thevictorious Magyars, and to us for centuries was trusted the guardingof the frontier of Turkeyland.  Aye, and more than that, endless dutyof the frontier guard, for as the Turks say, 'water sleeps, and theenemy is sleepless.'  Who more gladly than we throughout the FourNations received the 'bloody sword,' or at its warlike call flockedquicker to the standard of the King?  When was redeemed that greatshame of my nation, the shame of Cassova, when the flags of theWallach and the Magyar went down beneath the Crescent?  Who was it butone of my own race who as Voivode crossed the Danube and beat the Turkon his own ground?  This was a Dracula indeed!  Woe was it that hisown unworthy brother, when he had fallen, sold his people to the Turkand brought the shame of slavery on them!  Was it not this Dracula,indeed, who inspired that other of his race who in a later age againand again brought his forces over the great river into Turkeyland,who, when he was beaten back, came again, and again, though he had tocome alone from the bloody field where his troops were beingslaughtered, since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph!They said that he thought only of himself.  Bah!  What good arepeasants without a leader?  Where ends the war without a brain andheart to conduct it?  Again, when, after the battle of Mohacs, wethrew off the Hungarian yoke, we of the Dracula blood were amongsttheir leaders, for our spirit would not brook that we were not free.Ah, young sir, the Szekelys, and the Dracula as their heart's blood,their brains, and their swords, can boast a record that mushroomgrowths like the Hapsburgs and the Romanoffs can never reach.  Thewarlike days are over.  Blood is too precious a thing in these days ofdishonourable peace, and the glories of the great races are as a talethat is told."It was by this time close on morning, and we went to bed.  (Mem., thisdiary seems horribly like the beginning of the "Arabian Nights," foreverything has to break off at cockcrow, or like the ghost of Hamlet'sfather.)12 May.--Let me begin with facts, bare, meager facts, verified bybooks and figures, and of which there can be no doubt.  I must notconfuse them with experiences which will have to rest on my ownobservation, or my memory of them.  Last evening when the Count camefrom his room he began by asking me questions on legal matters and onthe doing of certain kinds of business.  I had spent the day wearilyover books, and, simply to keep my mind occupied, went over some ofthe matters I had been examined in at Lincoln's Inn.  There was acertain method in the Count's inquiries, so I shall try to put themdown in sequence.  The knowledge may somehow or some time be useful tome.First, he asked if a man in England might have two solicitors or more.I told him he might have a dozen if he wished, but that it would notbe wise to have more than one solicitor engaged in one transaction, asonly one could act at a time, and that to change would be certain tomilitate against his interest.  He seemed thoroughly to understand,and went on to ask if there would be any practical difficulty in havingone man to attend, say, to banking, and another to look aftershipping, in case local help were needed in a place far from the homeof the banking solicitor.  I asked to explain more fully, so that Imight not by any chance mislead him, so he said,"I shall illustrate.  Your friend and mine, Mr. Peter Hawkins, fromunder the shadow of your beautiful cathedral at Exeter, which is farfrom London, buys for me through your good self my place at London.Good!  Now here let me say frankly, lest you should think it strangethat I have sought the services of one so far off from London insteadof some one resident there, that my motive was that no local interestmight be served save my wish only, and as one of London residencemight, perhaps, have some purpose of himself or friend to serve, Iwent thus afield to seek my agent, whose labours should be only to myinterest.  Now, suppose I, who have much of affairs, wish to shipgoods, say, to Newcastle, or Durham, or Harwich, or Dover, might itnot be that it could with more ease be done by consigning to one inthese ports?"I answered that certainly it would be most easy, but that wesolicitors had a system of agency one for the other, so that localwork could be done locally on instruction from any solicitor, so thatthe client, simply placing himself in the hands of one man, could havehis wishes carried out by him without further trouble."But," said he, "I could be at liberty to direct myself.  Is it notso?""Of course," I replied, and "Such is often done by men of business,who do not like the whole of their affairs to be known by any oneperson.""Good!" he said, and then went on to ask about the means of makingconsignments and the forms to be gone through, and of all sorts ofdifficulties which might arise, but by forethought could be guardedagainst.  I explained all these things to him to the best of myability, and he certainly left me under the impression that he wouldhave made a wonderful solicitor, for there was nothing that he did notthink of or foresee.  For a man who was never in the country, and whodid not evidently do much in the way of business, his knowledge andacumen were wonderful.  When he had satisfied himself on these pointsof which he had spoken, and I had verified all as well as I could bythe books available, he suddenly stood up and said, "Have you writtensince your first letter to our friend Mr. Peter Hawkins, or to anyother?"It was with some bitterness in my heart that I answered that I hadnot, that as yet I had not seen any opportunity of sending letters toanybody."Then write now, my young friend," he said, laying a heavy hand on myshoulder, "write to our friend and to any other, and say, if it willplease you, that you shall stay with me until a month from now.""Do you wish me to stay so long?" I asked, for my heart grew cold atthe thought."I desire it much, nay I will take no refusal.  When your master,employer, what you will, engaged that someone should come on hisbehalf, it was understood that my needs only were to be consulted.  Ihave not stinted.  Is it not so?"What could I do but bow acceptance?  It was Mr. Hawkins' interest, notmine, and I had to think of him, not myself, and besides, while CountDracula was speaking, there was that in his eyes and in his bearingwhich made me remember that I was a prisoner, and that if I wished itI could have no choice.  The Count saw his victory in my bow, and hismastery in the trouble of my face, for he began at once to use them,but in his own smooth, resistless way."I pray you, my good young friend, that you will not discourse ofthings other than business in your letters.  It will doubtless pleaseyour friends to know that you are well, and that you look forward togetting home to them.  Is it not so?"  As he spoke he handed me threesheets of note paper and three envelopes.  They were all of thethinnest foreign post, and looking at them, then at him, and noticinghis quiet smile, with the sharp, canine teeth lying over the redunderlip, I understood as well as if he had spoken that I should bemore careful what I wrote, for he would be able to read it.  So Idetermined to write only formal notes now, but to write fully to Mr.Hawkins in secret, and also to Mina, for to her I could writeshorthand, which would puzzle the Count, if he did see it.  When I hadwritten my two letters I sat quiet, reading a book whilst the Countwrote several notes, referring as he wrote them to some books on histable.  Then he took up my two and placed them with his own, and putby his writing materials, after which, the instant the door had closedbehind him, I leaned over and looked at the letters, which were facedown on the table.  I felt no compunction in doing so for under thecircumstances I felt that I should protect myself in every way Icould.One of the letters was directed to Samuel F. Billington, No. 7, TheCrescent, Whitby, another to Herr Leutner, Varna.  The third was toCoutts & Co., London, and the fourth to Herren Klopstock & Billreuth,bankers, Buda Pesth.  The second and fourth were unsealed.  I was justabout to look at them when I saw the door handle move.  I sank back inmy seat, having just had time to resume my book before the Count,holding still another letter in his hand, entered the room.  He tookup the letters on the table and stamped them carefully, and thenturning to me, said,"I trust you will forgive me, but I have much work to do in privatethis evening.  You will, I hope, find all things as you wish."  At thedoor he turned, and after a moment's pause said, "Let me advise you,my dear young friend.  Nay, let me warn you with all seriousness, thatshould you leave these rooms you will not by any chance go to sleep inany other part of the castle.  It is old, and has many memories, andthere are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely.  Be warned!  Shouldsleep now or ever overcome you, or be like to do, then haste to yourown chamber or to these rooms, for your rest will then be safe.  Butif you be not careful in this respect, then," He finished his speechin a gruesome way, for he motioned with his hands as if he were washingthem.  I quite understood.  My only doubt was as to whether any dreamcould be more terrible than the unnatural, horrible net of gloom andmystery which seemed closing around me.Later.--I endorse the last words written, but this time there is nodoubt in question.  I shall not fear to sleep in any place where he isnot.  I have placed the crucifix over the head of my bed, I imaginethat my rest is thus freer from dreams, and there it shall remain.When he left me I went to my room.  After a little while, not hearingany sound, I came out and went up the stone stair to where I couldlook out towards the South.  There was some sense of freedom in thevast expanse, inaccessible though it was to me, as compared with thenarrow darkness of the courtyard.  Looking out on this, I felt that Iwas indeed in prison, and I seemed to want a breath of fresh air,though it were of the night.  I am beginning to feel this nocturnalexistence tell on me.  It is destroying my nerve.  I start at my ownshadow, and am full of all sorts of horrible imaginings.  God knowsthat there is ground for my terrible fear in this accursed place!  Ilooked out over the beautiful expanse, bathed in soft yellow moonlighttill it was almost as light as day.  In the soft light the distanthills became melted, and the shadows in the valleys and gorges ofvelvety blackness.  The mere beauty seemed to cheer me.  There waspeace and comfort in every breath I drew.  As I leaned from the windowmy eye was caught by something moving a storey below me, and somewhatto my left, where I imagined, from the order of the rooms, that thewindows of the Count's own room would look out.  The window at which Istood was tall and deep, stone-mullioned, and though weatherworn, wasstill complete.  But it was evidently many a day since the case hadbeen there.  I drew back behind the stonework, and looked carefullyout.What I saw was the Count's head coming out from the window.  I did notsee the face, but I knew the man by the neck and the movement of hisback and arms.  In any case I could not mistake the hands which I hadhad some many opportunities of studying.  I was at first interestedand somewhat amused, for it is wonderful how small a matter willinterest and amuse a man when he is a prisoner.  But my very feelingschanged to repulsion and terror when I saw the whole man slowly emergefrom the window and begin to crawl down the castle wall over thedreadful abyss, face down with his cloak spreading out around him likegreat wings.  At first I could not believe my eyes.  I thought it wassome trick of the moonlight, some weird effect of shadow, but I keptlooking, and it could be no delusion.  I saw the fingers and toesgrasp the corners of the stones, worn clear of the mortar by thestress of years, and by thus using every projection and inequalitymove downwards with considerable speed, just as a lizard moves along awall.What manner of man is this, or what manner of creature, is it in thesemblance of man?  I feel the dread of this horrible placeoverpowering me.  I am in fear, in awful fear, and there is no escapefor me.  I am encompassed about with terrors that I dare not think of.15 May.--Once more I have seen the count go out in his lizard fashion.He moved downwards in a sidelong way, some hundred feet down, and agood deal to the left.  He vanished into some hole or window.  Whenhis head had disappeared, I leaned out to try and see more, butwithout avail.  The distance was too great to allow a proper angle ofsight.  I knew he had left the castle now, and thought to use theopportunity to explore more than I had dared to do as yet.  I wentback to the room, and taking a lamp, tried all the doors.  They wereall locked, as I had expected, and the locks were comparatively new.But I went down the stone stairs to the hall where I had enteredoriginally.  I found I could pull back the bolts easily enough andunhook the great chains.  But the door was locked, and the key wasgone!  That key must be in the Count's room.  I must watch should hisdoor be unlocked, so that I may get it and escape.  I went on to makea thorough examination of the various stairs and passages, and to trythe doors that opened from them.  One or two small rooms near the hallwere open, but there was nothing to see in them except old furniture,dusty with age and moth-eaten.  At last, however, I found one door atthe top of the stairway which, though it seemed locked, gave a littleunder pressure.  I tried it harder, and found that it was not reallylocked, but that the resistance came from the fact that the hinges hadfallen somewhat, and the heavy door rested on the floor.  Here was anopportunity which I might not have again, so I exerted myself, andwith many efforts forced it back so that I could enter.  I was now ina wing of the castle further to the right than the rooms I knew and astorey lower down.  From the windows I could see that the suite ofrooms lay along to the south of the castle, the windows of the endroom looking out both west and south.  On the latter side, as well asto the former, there was a great precipice.  The castle was built onthe corner of a great rock, so that on three sides it was quiteimpregnable, and great windows were placed here where sling, or bow,or culverin could not reach, and consequently light and comfort,impossible to a position which had to be guarded, were secured.  Tothe west was a great valley, and then, rising far away, great jaggedmountain fastnesses, rising peak on peak, the sheer rock studded withmountain ash and thorn, whose roots clung in cracks and crevices andcrannies of the stone.  This was evidently the portion of the castleoccupied by the ladies in bygone days, for the furniture had more anair of comfort than any I had seen.The windows were curtainless, and the yellow moonlight, flooding inthrough the diamond panes, enabled one to see even colours, whilst itsoftened the wealth of dust which lay over all and disguised in somemeasure the ravages of time and moth.  My lamp seemed to be of littleeffect in the brilliant moonlight, but I was glad to have it with me,for there was a dread loneliness in the place which chilled my heartand made my nerves tremble.  Still, it was better than living alone inthe rooms which I had come to hate from the presence of the Count, andafter trying a little to school my nerves, I found a soft quietudecome over me.  Here I am, sitting at a little oak table where in oldtimes possibly some fair lady sat to pen, with much thought and manyblushes, her ill-spelt love letter, and writing in my diary inshorthand all that has happened since I closed it last.  It is thenineteenth century up-to-date with a vengeance.  And yet, unless mysenses deceive me, the old centuries had, and have, powers of theirown which mere "modernity" cannot kill.Later:  The morning of 16 May.--God preserve my sanity, for to this Iam reduced.  Safety and the assurance of safety are things of thepast.  Whilst I live on here there is but one thing to hope for, thatI may not go mad, if, indeed, I be not mad already.  If I be sane,then surely it is maddening to think that of all the foul things thatlurk in this hateful place the Count is the least dreadful to me, thatto him alone I can look for safety, even though this be only whilst Ican serve his purpose.  Great God!  Merciful God, let me be calm, forout of that way lies madness indeed.  I begin to get new lights oncertain things which have puzzled me.  Up to now I never quite knewwhat Shakespeare meant when he made Hamlet say, "My tablets!  Quick,my tablets!  'tis meet that I put it down," etc., For now, feeling asthough my own brain were unhinged or as if the shock had come whichmust end in its undoing, I turn to my diary for repose.  The habit ofentering accurately must help to soothe me.The Count's mysterious warning frightened me at the time.  It frightensme more not when I think of it, for in the future he has a fearfulhold upon me.  I shall fear to doubt what he may say!When I had written in my diary and had fortunately replaced the bookand pen in my pocket I felt sleepy.  The Count's warning came into mymind, but I took pleasure in disobeying it.  The sense of sleep wasupon me, and with it the obstinacy which sleep brings as outrider.  Thesoft moonlight soothed, and the wide expanse without gave a sense offreedom which refreshed me.  I determined not to return tonight to thegloom-haunted rooms, but to sleep here, where, of old, ladies had satand sung and lived sweet lives whilst their gentle breasts were sadfor their menfolk away in the midst of remorseless wars.  I drew agreat couch out of its place near the corner, so that as I lay, Icould look at the lovely view to east and south, and unthinking of anduncaring for the dust, composed myself for sleep.  I suppose I musthave fallen asleep.  I hope so, but I fear, for all that followed wasstartlingly real, so real that now sitting here in the broad, fullsunlight of the morning, I cannot in the least believe that it was allsleep.I was not alone.  The room was the same, unchanged in any way since Icame into it.  I could see along the floor, in the brilliantmoonlight, my own footsteps marked where I had disturbed the longaccumulation of dust.  In the moonlight opposite me were three youngwomen, ladies by their dress and manner.  I thought at the time that Imust be dreaming when I saw them, they threw no shadow on the floor.They came close to me, and looked at me for some time, and thenwhispered together.  Two were dark, and had high aquiline noses, likethe Count, and great dark, piercing eyes, that seemed to be almost redwhen contrasted with the pale yellow moon.  The other was fair, asfair as can be, with great masses of golden hair and eyes like palesapphires.  I seemed somehow to know her face, and to know it inconnection with some dreamy fear, but I could not recollect at themoment how or where.  All three had brilliant white teeth that shonelike pearls against the ruby of their voluptuous lips.  There wassomething about them that made me uneasy, some longing and at the sametime some deadly fear.  I felt in my heart a wicked, burning desirethat they would kiss me with those red lips.  It is not good to notethis down, lest some day it should meet Mina's eyes and cause herpain, but it is the truth.  They whispered together, and then they allthree laughed, such a silvery, musical laugh, but as hard as thoughthe sound never could have come through the softness of human lips.It was like the intolerable, tingling sweetness of waterglasses whenplayed on by a cunning hand.  The fair girl shook her headcoquettishly, and the other two urged her on.One said, "Go on!  You are first, and we shall follow.  Yours is theright to begin."The other added, "He is young and strong.  There are kisses for usall."I lay quiet, looking out from under my eyelashes in an agony ofdelightful anticipation.  The fair girl advanced and bent over me tillI could feel the movement of her breath upon me.  Sweet it was in onesense, honey-sweet, and sent the same tingling through the nerves asher voice, but with a bitter underlying the sweet, a bitteroffensiveness, as one smells in blood.I was afraid to raise my eyelids, but looked out and saw perfectlyunder the lashes.  The girl went on her knees, and bent over me,simply gloating.  There was a deliberate voluptuousness which was boththrilling and repulsive, and as she arched her neck she actuallylicked her lips like an animal, till I could see in the moonlight themoisture shining on the scarlet lips and on the red tongue as itlapped the white sharp teeth.  Lower and lower went her head as thelips went below the range of my mouth and chin and seemed to fasten onmy throat.  Then she paused, and I could hear the churning sound ofher tongue as it licked her teeth and lips, and I could feel the hotbreath on my neck.  Then the skin of my throat began to tingle asone's flesh does when the hand that is to tickle it approaches nearer,nearer.  I could feel the soft, shivering touch of the lips on thesuper sensitive skin of my throat, and the hard dents of two sharpteeth, just touching and pausing there.  I closed my eyes inlanguorous ecstasy and waited, waited with beating heart.But at that instant, another sensation swept through me as quick aslightning.  I was conscious of the presence of the Count, and of hisbeing as if lapped in a storm of fury.  As my eyes openedinvoluntarily I saw his strong hand grasp the slender neck of the fairwoman and with giant's power draw it back, the blue eyes transformedwith fury, the white teeth champing with rage, and the fair cheeksblazing red with passion.  But the Count!  Never did I imagine suchwrath and fury, even to the demons of the pit.  His eyes werepositively blazing.  The red light in them was lurid, as if the flamesof hell fire blazed behind them.  His face was deathly pale, and thelines of it were hard like drawn wires.  The thick eyebrows that metover the nose now seemed like a heaving bar of white-hot metal.  Witha fierce sweep of his arm, he hurled the woman from him, and thenmotioned to the others, as though he were beating them back.  It wasthe same imperious gesture that I had seen used to the wolves.  In avoice which, though low and almost in a whisper seemed to cut throughthe air and then ring in the room he said,"How dare you touch him, any of you?  How dare you cast eyes on himwhen I had forbidden it?  Back, I tell you all!  This man belongs tome!  Beware how you meddle with him, or you'll have to deal with me."The fair girl, with a laugh of ribald coquetry, turned to answer him."You yourself never loved.  You never love!"  On this the other womenjoined, and such a mirthless, hard, soulless laughter rang through theroom that it almost made me faint to hear.  It seemed like thepleasure of fiends.Then the Count turned, after looking at my face attentively, and saidin a soft whisper, "Yes, I too can love.  You yourselves can tell itfrom the past.  Is it not so?  Well, now I promise you that when I amdone with him you shall kiss him at your will.  Now go!  Go!  I mustawaken him, for there is work to be done.""Are we to have nothing tonight?" said one of them, with a low laugh,as she pointed to the bag which he had thrown upon the floor, andwhich moved as though there were some living thing within it.  Foranswer he nodded his head.  One of the women jumped forward and openedit.  If my ears did not deceive me there was a gasp and a low wail, asof a half smothered child.  The women closed round, whilst I wasaghast with horror.  But as I looked, they disappeared, and with themthe dreadful bag.  There was no door near them, and they could nothave passed me without my noticing.  They simply seemed to fade intothe rays of the moonlight and pass out through the window, for I couldsee outside the dim, shadowy forms for a moment before they entirelyfaded away.Then the horror overcame me, and I sank down unconscious.CHAPTER 4Jonathan Harker's Journal ContinuedI awoke in my own bed.  If it be that I had not dreamt, the Count musthave carried me here.  I tried to satisfy myself on the subject, butcould not arrive at any unquestionable result.  To be sure, there werecertain small evidences, such as that my clothes were folded and laidby in a manner which was not my habit.  My watch was still unwound,and I am rigorously accustomed to wind it the last thing before goingto bed, and many such details.  But these things are no proof, forthey may have been evidences that my mind was not as usual, and, forsome cause or another, I had certainly been much upset.  I must watchfor proof.  Of one thing I am glad.  If it was that the Count carriedme here and undressed me, he must have been hurried in his task, formy pockets are intact.  I am sure this diary would have been a mysteryto him which he would not have brooked.  He would have taken ordestroyed it.  As I look round this room, although it has been to meso full of fear, it is now a sort of sanctuary, for nothing can bemore dreadful than those awful women, who were, who are, waiting tosuck my blood.18 May.--I have been down to look at that room again in daylight, forI must know the truth.  When I got to the doorway at the top of thestairs I found it closed.  It had been so forcibly driven against thejamb that part of the woodwork was splintered.  I could see that thebolt of the lock had not been shot, but the door is fastened from theinside.  I fear it was no dream, and must act on this surmise.19 May.--I am surely in the toils.  Last night the Count asked me inthe suavest tones to write three letters, one saying that my work herewas nearly done, and that I should start for home within a few days,another that I was starting on the next morning from the time of theletter, and the third that I had left the castle and arrived atBistritz.  I would fain have rebelled, but felt that in the presentstate of things it would be madness to quarrel openly with the Countwhilst I am so absolutely in his power.  And to refuse would be toexcite his suspicion and to arouse his anger.  He knows that I knowtoo much, and that I must not live, lest I be dangerous to him.  Myonly chance is to prolong my opportunities.  Something may occur whichwill give me a chance to escape.  I saw in his eyes something of thatgathering wrath which was manifest when he hurled that fair woman fromhim.  He explained to me that posts were few and uncertain, and thatmy writing now would ensure ease of mind to my friends.  And heassured me with so much impressiveness that he would countermand thelater letters, which would be held over at Bistritz until due time incase chance would admit of my prolonging my stay, that to oppose himwould have been to create new suspicion.  I therefore pretended tofall in with his views, and asked him what dates I should put on theletters.He calculated a minute, and then said, "The first should be June 12,the second June 19, and the third June 29."I know now the span of my life.  God help me!28 May.--There is a chance of escape, or at any rate of being able tosend word home.  A band of Szgany have come to the castle, and areencamped in the courtyard.  These are gipsies.  I have notes of themin my book.  They are peculiar to this part of the world, thoughallied to the ordinary gipsies all the world over.  There arethousands of them in Hungary and Transylvania, who are almost outsideall law.  They attach themselves as a rule to some great noble orboyar, and call themselves by his name.  They are fearless and withoutreligion, save superstition, and they talk only their own varieties ofthe Romany tongue.I shall write some letters home, and shall try to get them to havethem posted.  I have already spoken to them through my window to beginacquaintanceship.  They took their hats off and made obeisance andmany signs, which however, I could not understand any more than Icould their spoken language . . .I have written the letters.  Mina's is in shorthand, and I simply askMr. Hawkins to communicate with her.  To her I have explained mysituation, but without the horrors which I may only surmise.  It wouldshock and frighten her to death were I to expose my heart to her.Should the letters not carry, then the Count shall not yet know mysecret or the extent of my knowledge. . . .I have given the letters.  I threw them through the bars of my windowwith a gold piece, and made what signs I could to have them posted.The man who took them pressed them to his heart and bowed, and thenput them in his cap.  I could do no more.  I stole back to the study,and began to read.  As the Count did not come in, I have writtenhere . . .The Count has come.  He sat down beside me, and said in his smoothestvoice as he opened two letters, "The Szgany has given me these, ofwhich, though I know not whence they come, I shall, of course, takecare.  See!"--He must have looked at it.--"One is from you, and to myfriend Peter Hawkins.  The other,"--here he caught sight of thestrange symbols as he opened the envelope, and the dark look came intohis face, and his eyes blazed wickedly,--"The other is a vile thing,an outrage upon friendship and hospitality!  It is not signed.  Well!So it cannot matter to us."  And he calmly held letter and envelope inthe flame of the lamp till they were consumed.Then he went on, "The letter to Hawkins, that I shall, of course sendon, since it is yours.  Your letters are sacred to me.  Your pardon,my friend, that unknowingly I did break the seal.  Will you not coverit again?"  He held out the letter to me, and with a courteous bowhanded me a clean envelope.I could only redirect it and hand it to him in silence.  When he wentout of the room I could hear the key turn softly.  A minute later Iwent over and tried it, and the door was locked.When, an hour or two after, the Count came quietly into the room, hiscoming awakened me, for I had gone to sleep on the sofa.  He was verycourteous and very cheery in his manner, and seeing that I had beensleeping, he said, "So, my friend, you are tired?  Get to bed.  Thereis the surest rest.  I may not have the pleasure of talk tonight,since there are many labours to me, but you will sleep, I pray."I passed to my room and went to bed, and, strange to say, sleptwithout dreaming.  Despair has its own calms.31 May.--This morning when I woke I thought I would provide myselfwith some papers and envelopes from my bag and keep them in my pocket,so that I might write in case I should get an opportunity, but again asurprise, again a shock!Every scrap of paper was gone, and with it all my notes, my memoranda,relating to railways and travel, my letter of credit, in fact all thatmight be useful to me were I once outside the castle.  I sat andpondered awhile, and then some thought occurred to me, and I madesearch of my portmanteau and in the wardrobe where I had placed myclothes.The suit in which I had travelled was gone, and also my overcoat andrug.  I could find no trace of them anywhere.  This looked like somenew scheme of villainy . . .17 June.--This morning, as I was sitting on the edge of my bedcudgelling my brains, I heard without a crackling of whips andpounding and scraping of horses' feet up the rocky path beyond thecourtyard.  With joy I hurried to the window, and saw drive into theyard two great leiter-wagons, each drawn by eight sturdy horses, andat the head of each pair a Slovak, with his wide hat, greatnail-studded belt, dirty sheepskin, and high boots.  They had alsotheir long staves in hand.  I ran to the door, intending to descendand try and join them through the main hall, as I thought that waymight be opened for them.  Again a shock, my door was fastened on theoutside.Then I ran to the window and cried to them.  They looked up at mestupidly and pointed, but just then the "hetman" of the Szgany cameout, and seeing them pointing to my window, said something, at whichthey laughed.Henceforth no effort of mine, no piteous cry or agonized entreaty,would make them even look at me.  They resolutely turned away.  Theleiter-wagons contained great, square boxes, with handles of thickrope.  These were evidently empty by the ease with which the Slovakshandled them, and by their resonance as they were roughly moved.When they were all unloaded and packed in a great heap in one cornerof the yard, the Slovaks were given some money by the Szgany, andspitting on it for luck, lazily went each to his horse's head.Shortly afterwards, I heard the crackling of their whips die away inthe distance.24 June.--Last night the Count left me early, and locked himself intohis own room.  As soon as I dared I ran up the winding stair, andlooked out of the window, which opened South.  I thought I would watchfor the Count, for there is something going on.  The Szgany arequartered somewhere in the castle and are doing work of some kind.  Iknow it, for now and then, I hear a far-away muffled sound as ofmattock and spade, and, whatever it is, it must be the end of someruthless villainy.I had been at the window somewhat less than half an hour, when I sawsomething coming out of the Count's window.  I drew back and watchedcarefully, and saw the whole man emerge.  It was a new shock to me tofind that he had on the suit of clothes which I had worn whilsttravelling here, and slung over his shoulder the terrible bag which Ihad seen the women take away.  There could be no doubt as to hisquest, and in my garb, too!  This, then, is his new scheme of evil,that he will allow others to see me, as they think, so that he mayboth leave evidence that I have been seen in the towns or villagesposting my own letters, and that any wickedness which he may do shallby the local people be attributed to me.It makes me rage to think that this can go on, and whilst I am shut uphere, a veritable prisoner, but without that protection of the lawwhich is even a criminal's right and consolation.I thought I would watch for the Count's return, and for a long timesat doggedly at the window.  Then I began to notice that there weresome quaint little specks floating in the rays of the moonlight.  Theywere like the tiniest grains of dust, and they whirled round andgathered in clusters in a nebulous sort of way.  I watched them with asense of soothing, and a sort of calm stole over me.  I leaned back inthe embrasure in a more comfortable position, so that I could enjoymore fully the aerial gambolling.Something made me start up, a low, piteous howling of dogs somewherefar below in the valley, which was hidden from my sight.  Louder itseemed to ring in my ears, and the floating moats of dust to take newshapes to the sound as they danced in the moonlight.  I felt myselfstruggling to awake to some call of my instincts.  Nay, my very soulwas struggling, and my half-remembered sensibilities were striving toanswer the call.  I was becoming hypnotised!Quicker and quicker danced the dust.  The moonbeams seemed to quiveras they went by me into the mass of gloom beyond.  More and more theygathered till they seemed to take dim phantom shapes.  And then Istarted, broad awake and in full possession of my senses, and ranscreaming from the place.The phantom shapes, which were becoming gradually materialised fromthe moonbeams, were those three ghostly women to whom I was doomed.I fled, and felt somewhat safer in my own room, where there was nomoonlight, and where the lamp was burning brightly.When a couple of hours had passed I heard something stirring in theCount's room, something like a sharp wail quickly suppressed.  Andthen there was silence, deep, awful silence, which chilled me.  With abeating heart, I tried the door, but I was locked in my prison, andcould do nothing.  I sat down and simply cried.As I sat I heard a sound in the courtyard without, the agonised cry ofa woman.  I rushed to the window, and throwing it up, peered betweenthe bars.There, indeed, was a woman with dishevelled hair, holding her handsover her heart as one distressed with running.  She was leaningagainst the corner of the gateway.  When she saw my face at the windowshe threw herself forward, and shouted in a voice laden with menace,"Monster, give me my child!"She threw herself on her knees, and raising up her hands, cried thesame words in tones which wrung my heart.  Then she tore her hair andbeat her breast, and abandoned herself to all the violences ofextravagant emotion.  Finally, she threw herself forward, and though Icould not see her, I could hear the beating of her naked hands againstthe door.Somewhere high overhead, probably on the tower, I heard the voice ofthe Count calling in his harsh, metallic whisper.  His call seemed tobe answered from far and wide by the howling of wolves.  Before manyminutes had passed a pack of them poured, like a pent-up dam whenliberated, through the wide entrance into the courtyard.There was no cry from the woman, and the howling of the wolves was butshort.  Before long they streamed away singly, licking their lips.I could not pity her, for I knew now what had become of her child, andshe was better dead.What shall I do?  What can I do?  How can I escape from this dreadfulthing of night, gloom, and fear?25 June.--No man knows till he has suffered from the night how sweetand dear to his heart and eye the morning can be.  When the sun grewso high this morning that it struck the top of the great gatewayopposite my window, the high spot which it touched seemed to me as ifthe dove from the ark had lighted there.  My fear fell from me as ifit had been a vaporous garment which dissolved in the warmth.I must take action of some sort whilst the courage of the day is uponme.  Last night one of my post-dated letters went to post, the firstof that fatal series which is to blot out the very traces of myexistence from the earth.Let me not think of it.  Action!It has always been at night-time that I have been molested orthreatened, or in some way in danger or in fear.  I have not yet seenthe Count in the daylight.  Can it be that he sleeps when others wake,that he may be awake whilst they sleep?  If I could only get into hisroom!  But there is no possible way.  The door is always locked, noway for me.Yes, there is a way, if one dares to take it.  Where his body has gonewhy may not another body go?  I have seen him myself crawl from hiswindow.  Why should not I imitate him, and go in by his window?  Thechances are desperate, but my need is more desperate still.  I shallrisk it.  At the worst it can only be death, and a man's death is nota calf's, and the dreaded Hereafter may still be open to me.  God helpme in my task!  Goodbye, Mina, if I fail.  Goodbye, my faithful friendand second father.  Goodbye, all, and last of all Mina!Same day, later.--I have made the effort, and God helping me, havecome safely back to this room.  I must put down every detail in order.I went whilst my courage was fresh straight to the window on the southside, and at once got outside on this side.  The stones are big androughly cut, and the mortar has by process of time been washed awaybetween them.  I took off my boots, and ventured out on the desperateway.  I looked down once, so as to make sure that a sudden glimpse ofthe awful depth would not overcome me, but after that kept my eyesaway from it.  I know pretty well the direction and distance of theCount's window, and made for it as well as I could, having regard tothe opportunities available.  I did not feel dizzy, I suppose I wastoo excited, and the time seemed ridiculously short till I foundmyself standing on the window sill and trying to raise up the sash.  Iwas filled with agitation, however, when I bent down and slid feetforemost in through the window.  Then I looked around for the Count,but with surprise and gladness, made a discovery.  The room wasempty!  It was barely furnished with odd things, which seemed to havenever been used.The furniture was something the same style as that in the south rooms,and was covered with dust.  I looked for the key, but it was not inthe lock, and I could not find it anywhere.  The only thing I foundwas a great heap of gold in one corner, gold of all kinds, Roman, andBritish, and Austrian, and Hungarian, and Greek and Turkish money,covered with a film of dust, as though it had lain long in the ground.None of it that I noticed was less than three hundred years old.There were also chains and ornaments, some jewelled, but all of themold and stained.At one corner of the room was a heavy door.  I tried it, for, since Icould not find the key of the room or the key of the outer door, whichwas the main object of my search, I must make further examination, orall my efforts would be in vain.  It was open, and led through a stonepassage to a circular stairway, which went steeply down.I descended, minding carefully where I went for the stairs were dark,being only lit by loopholes in the heavy masonry.  At the bottom therewas a dark, tunnel-like passage, through which came a deathly, sicklyodour, the odour of old earth newly turned.  As I went through thepassage the smell grew closer and heavier.  At last I pulled open aheavy door which stood ajar, and found myself in an old ruined chapel,which had evidently been used as a graveyard.  The roof was broken,and in two places were steps leading to vaults, but the ground hadrecently been dug over, and the earth placed in great wooden boxes,manifestly those which had been brought by the Slovaks.There was nobody about, and I made a search over every inch of theground, so as not to lose a chance.  I went down even into the vaults,where the dim light struggled, although to do so was a dread to myvery soul.  Into two of these I went, but saw nothing except fragmentsof old coffins and piles of dust.  In the third, however, I made adiscovery.There, in one of the great boxes, of which there were fifty in all, ona pile of newly dug earth, lay the Count!  He was either dead orasleep.  I could not say which, for eyes were open and stony, butwithout the glassiness of death, and the cheeks had the warmth of lifethrough all their pallor.  The lips were as red as ever.  But therewas no sign of movement, no pulse, no breath, no beating of the heart.I bent over him, and tried to find any sign of life, but in vain.  Hecould not have lain there long, for the earthy smell would have passedaway in a few hours.  By the side of the box was its cover, piercedwith holes here and there.  I thought he might have the keys on him,but when I went to search I saw the dead eyes, and in them dead thoughthey were, such a look of hate, though unconscious of me or mypresence, that I fled from the place, and leaving the Count's room bythe window, crawled again up the castle wall.  Regaining my room, Ithrew myself panting upon the bed and tried to think.29 June.--Today is the date of my last letter, and the Count has takensteps to prove that it was genuine, for again I saw him leave thecastle by the same window, and in my clothes.  As he went down thewall, lizard fashion, I wished I had a gun or some lethal weapon, thatI might destroy him.  But I fear that no weapon wrought along by man'shand would have any effect on him.  I dared not wait to see himreturn, for I feared to see those weird sisters.  I came back to thelibrary, and read there till I fell asleep.I was awakened by the Count, who looked at me as grimly as a man couldlook as he said, "Tomorrow, my friend, we must part.  You return toyour beautiful England, I to some work which may have such an end thatwe may never meet.  Your letter home has been despatched.  Tomorrow Ishall not be here, but all shall be ready for your journey.  In themorning come the Szgany, who have some labours of their own here, andalso come some Slovaks.  When they have gone, my carriage shall comefor you, and shall bear you to the Borgo Pass to meet the diligencefrom Bukovina to Bistritz.  But I am in hopes that I shall see more ofyou at Castle Dracula."I suspected him, and determined to test his sincerity.  Sincerity!  Itseems like a profanation of the word to write it in connection withsuch a monster, so I asked him point-blank, "Why may I not gotonight?""Because, dear sir, my coachman and horses are away on a mission.""But I would walk with pleasure.  I want to get away at once."He smiled, such a soft, smooth, diabolical smile that I knew there wassome trick behind his smoothness.  He said, "And your baggage?""I do not care about it.  I can send for it some other time."The Count stood up, and said, with a sweet courtesy which made me rubmy eyes, it seemed so real, "You English have a saying which is closeto my heart, for its spirit is that which rules our boyars, 'Welcomethe coming, speed the parting guest.'  Come with me, my dear youngfriend.  Not an hour shall you wait in my house against your will,though sad am I at your going, and that you so suddenly desire it.Come!"  With a stately gravity, he, with the lamp, preceded me downthe stairs and along the hall.  Suddenly he stopped.  "Hark!"Close at hand came the howling of many wolves.  It was almost as ifthe sound sprang up at the rising of his hand, just as the music of agreat orchestra seems to leap under the baton of the conductor.  Aftera pause of a moment, he proceeded, in his stately way, to the door,drew back the ponderous bolts, unhooked the heavy chains, and began todraw it open.To my intense astonishment I saw that it was unlocked.  Suspiciously,I looked all round, but could see no key of any kind.As the door began to open, the howling of the wolves without grewlouder and angrier.  Their red jaws, with champing teeth, and theirblunt-clawed feet as they leaped, came in through the opening door.  Iknew than that to struggle at the moment against the Count wasuseless.  With such allies as these at his command, I could donothing.But still the door continued slowly to open, and only the Count's bodystood in the gap.  Suddenly it struck me that this might be the momentand means of my doom.  I was to be given to the wolves, and at my owninstigation.  There was a diabolical wickedness in the idea greatenough for the Count, and as the last chance I cried out, "Shut thedoor!  I shall wait till morning."  And I covered my face with myhands to hide my tears of bitter disappointment.With one sweep of his powerful arm, the Count threw the door shut, andthe great bolts clanged and echoed through the hall as they shot backinto their places.In silence we returned to the library, and after a minute or two I wentto my own room.  The last I saw of Count Dracula was his kissing hishand to me, with a red light of triumph in his eyes, and with a smilethat Judas in hell might be proud of.When I was in my room and about to lie down, I thought I heard awhispering at my door.  I went to it softly and listened.  Unless myears deceived me, I heard the voice of the Count."Back!  Back to your own place!  Your time is not yet come.  Wait!Have patience!  Tonight is mine.  Tomorrow night is yours!"There was a low, sweet ripple of laughter, and in a rage I threw openthe door, and saw without the three terrible women licking their lips.As I appeared, they all joined in a horrible laugh, and ran away.I came back to my room and threw myself on my knees.  It is then sonear the end?  Tomorrow!  Tomorrow!  Lord, help me, and those to whomI am dear!30 June.--These may be the last words I ever write in this diary.  Islept till just before the dawn, and when I woke threw myself on myknees, for I determined that if Death came he should find me ready.At last I felt that subtle change in the air, and knew that themorning had come.  Then came the welcome cockcrow, and I felt that Iwas safe.  With a glad heart, I opened the door and ran down the hall.I had seen that the door was unlocked, and now escape was before me.With hands that trembled with eagerness, I unhooked the chains andthrew back the massive bolts.But the door would not move.  Despair seized me.  I pulled and pulledat the door, and shook it till, massive as it was, it rattled in itscasement.  I could see the bolt shot.  It had been locked after I leftthe Count.Then a wild desire took me to obtain the key at any risk, and Idetermined then and there to scale the wall again, and gain theCount's room.  He might kill me, but death now seemed the happierchoice of evils.  Without a pause I rushed up to the east window, andscrambled down the wall, as before, into the Count's room.  It wasempty, but that was as I expected.  I could not see a key anywhere,but the heap of gold remained.  I went through the door in the cornerand down the winding stair and along the dark passage to the oldchapel.  I knew now well enough where to find the monster I sought.The great box was in the same place, close against the wall, but thelid was laid on it, not fastened down, but with the nails ready intheir places to be hammered home.I knew I must reach the body for the key, so I raised the lid, andlaid it back against the wall.  And then I saw something which filledmy very soul with horror.  There lay the Count, but looking as if hisyouth had been half restored.  For the white hair and moustache werechanged to dark iron-grey.  The cheeks were fuller, and the white skinseemed ruby-red underneath.  The mouth was redder than ever, for onthe lips were gouts of fresh blood, which trickled from the corners ofthe mouth and ran down over the chin and neck.  Even the deep, burningeyes seemed set amongst swollen flesh, for the lids and pouchesunderneath were bloated.  It seemed as if the whole awful creaturewere simply gorged with blood.  He lay like a filthy leech, exhaustedwith his repletion.I shuddered as I bent over to touch him, and every sense in merevolted at the contact, but I had to search, or I was lost.  Thecoming night might see my own body a banquet in a similar war to thosehorrid three.  I felt all over the body, but no sign could I find ofthe key.  Then I stopped and looked at the Count.  There was a mockingsmile on the bloated face which seemed to drive me mad.  This was thebeing I was helping to transfer to London, where, perhaps, forcenturies to come he might, amongst its teeming millions, satiate hislust for blood, and create a new and ever-widening circle ofsemi-demons to batten on the helpless.The very thought drove me mad.  A terrible desire came upon me to ridthe world of such a monster.  There was no lethal weapon at hand, butI seized a shovel which the workmen had been using to fill the cases,and lifting it high, struck, with the edge downward, at the hatefulface.  But as I did so the head turned, and the eyes fell upon me,with all their blaze of basilisk horror.  The sight seemed to paralyzeme, and the shovel turned in my hand and glanced from the face, merelymaking a deep gash above the forehead.  The shovel fell from my handacross the box, and as I pulled it away the flange of the blade caughtthe edge of the lid which fell over again, and hid the horrid thingfrom my sight.  The last glimpse I had was of the bloated face,blood-stained and fixed with a grin of malice which would have heldits own in the nethermost hell.I thought and thought what should be my next move, but my brain seemedon fire, and I waited with a despairing feeling growing over me.  As Iwaited I heard in the distance a gipsy song sung by merry voicescoming closer, and through their song the rolling of heavy wheels andthe cracking of whips.  The Szgany and the Slovaks of whom the Counthad spoken were coming.  With a last look around and at the box whichcontained the vile body, I ran from the place and gained the Count'sroom, determined to rush out at the moment the door should be opened.With strained ears, I listened, and heard downstairs the grinding ofthe key in the great lock and the falling back of the heavy door.There must have been some other means of entry, or some one had a keyfor one of the locked doors.Then there came the sound of many feet tramping and dying away in somepassage which sent up a clanging echo.  I turned to run down againtowards the vault, where I might find the new entrance, but at themoment there seemed to come a violent puff of wind, and the door tothe winding stair blew to with a shock that set the dust from thelintels flying.  When I ran to push it open, I found that it washopelessly fast.  I was again a prisoner, and the net of doom wasclosing round me more closely.As I write there is in the passage below a sound of many tramping feetand the crash of weights being set down heavily, doubtless the boxes,with their freight of earth.  There was a sound of hammering.  It isthe box being nailed down.  Now I can hear the heavy feet trampingagain along the hall, with many other idle feet coming behind them.The door is shut, the chains rattle.  There is a grinding of the keyin the lock.  I can hear the key withdrawn, then another door opensand shuts.  I hear the creaking of lock and bolt.Hark!  In the courtyard and down the rocky way the roll of heavywheels, the crack of whips, and the chorus of the Szgany as they passinto the distance.I am alone in the castle with those horrible women.  Faugh!  Mina is awoman, and there is nought in common.  They are devils of the Pit!I shall not remain alone with them.  I shall try to scale the castlewall farther than I have yet attempted.  I shall take some of the goldwith me, lest I want it later.  I may find a way from this dreadfulplace.And then away for home!  Away to the quickest and nearest train!  Awayfrom the cursed spot, from this cursed land, where the devil and hischildren still walk with earthly feet!At least God's mercy is better than that of those monsters, and theprecipice is steep and high.  At its foot a man may sleep, as a man.Goodbye, all.  Mina!CHAPTER 5LETTER FROM MISS MINA MURRAY TO MISS LUCY WESTENRA9 May.My dearest Lucy,Forgive my long delay in writing, but I have been simply overwhelmedwith work.  The life of an assistant schoolmistress is sometimestrying.  I am longing to be with you, and by the sea, where we cantalk together freely and build our castles in the air.  I have beenworking very hard lately, because I want to keep up with Jonathan'sstudies, and I have been practicing shorthand very assiduously.When we are married I shall be able to be useful to Jonathan, and ifI can stenograph well enough I can take down what he wants to say inthis way and write it out for him on the typewriter, at which also Iam practicing very hard.He and I sometimes write letters in shorthand, and he iskeeping a stenographic journal of his travels abroad.  WhenI am with you I shall keep a diary in the same way.  I don'tmean one of those two-pages-to-the-week-with-Sunday-squeezed-in-a-corner diaries, but a sort of journal which I can writein whenever I feel inclined.I do not suppose there will be much of interest to other people, butit is not intended for them.  I may show it to Jonathan some day ifthere is in it anything worth sharing, but it is really an exercisebook.  I shall try to do what I see lady journalists do,interviewing and writing descriptions and trying to rememberconversations.  I am told that, with a little practice, one canremember all that goes on or that one hears said during a day.However, we shall see.  I will tell you of my little plans when wemeet.  I have just had a few hurried lines from Jonathan fromTransylvania.  He is well, and will be returning in about a week.  Iam longing to hear all his news.  It must be nice to see strangecountries.  I wonder if we, I mean Jonathan and I, shall ever seethem together.  There is the ten o'clock bell ringing.  Goodbye.Your lovingMinaTell me all the news when you write.  You have not told meanything for a long time.  I hear rumours, and especiallyof a tall, handsome, curly-haired man???LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA MURRAY17, Chatham StreetWednesdayMy dearest Mina,I must say you tax me very unfairly with being a bad correspondent.I wrote you twice since we parted, and your last letter was onlyyour second.  Besides, I have nothing to tell you.  There is reallynothing to interest you.Town is very pleasant just now, and we go a great deal topicture-galleries and for walks and rides in the park.  Asto the tall, curly-haired man, I suppose it was the one whowas with me at the last Pop.  Someone has evidently beentelling tales.That was Mr. Holmwood.  He often comes to see us, and he andMamma get on very well together, they have so many thingsto talk about in common.We met some time ago a man that would just do for you, if you werenot already engaged to Jonathan.  He is an excellent parti, beinghandsome, well off, and of good birth.  He is a doctor and reallyclever.  Just fancy!  He is only nine-and twenty, and he has animmense lunatic asylum all under his own care.  Mr. Holmwoodintroduced him to me, and he called here to see us, and often comesnow.  I think he is one of the most resolute men I ever saw, and yetthe most calm.  He seems absolutely imperturbable.  I can fancy whata wonderful power he must have over his patients.  He has a curioushabit of looking one straight in the face, as if trying to readone's thoughts.  He tries this on very much with me, but I flattermyself he has got a tough nut to crack.  I know that from my glass.Do you ever try to read your own face?  I do, and I cantell you it is not a bad study, and gives you more troublethan you can well fancy if you have never tried it.He says that I afford him a curious psychological study, andI humbly think I do.  I do not, as you know, take sufficientinterest in dress to be able to describe the new fashions.Dress is a bore.  That is slang again, but never mind.  Arthursays that every day.There, it is all out, Mina, we have told all our secrets toeach other since we were children.  We have slept togetherand eaten together, and laughed and cried together, andnow, though I have spoken, I would like to speak more.  Oh,Mina, couldn't you guess?  I love him.  I am blushing as Iwrite, for although I think he loves me, he has not told meso in words.  But, oh, Mina, I love him.  I love him!  There,that does me good.I wish I were with you, dear, sitting by the fire undressing, as weused to sit, and I would try to tell you what I feel.  I do not knowhow I am writing this even to you.  I am afraid to stop, or I shouldtear up the letter, and I don't want to stop, for I do so want totell you all. Let me hear from you at once, and tell me all that youthink about it.  Mina, pray for my happiness.LucyP.S.--I need not tell you this is a secret.Goodnight again.  L.LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA MURRAY24 MayMy dearest Mina,Thanks, and thanks, and thanks again for your sweet letter.  Itwas so nice to be able to tell you and to have your sympathy.My dear, it never rains but it pours.  How true the old proverbsare.  Here am I, who shall be twenty in September, and yet I neverhad a proposal till today, not a real proposal, and today I hadthree.  Just fancy!  Three proposals in one day!  Isn't it awful!  Ifeel sorry, really and truly sorry, for two of the poor fellows.Oh, Mina, I am so happy that I don't know what to do with myself.And three proposals!  But, for goodness' sake, don't tell any of thegirls, or they would be getting all sorts of extravagant ideas, andimagining themselves injured and slighted if in their very first dayat home they did not get six at least.  Some girls are so vain!  Youand I, Mina dear, who are engaged and are going to settle down soonsoberly into old married women, can despise vanity.  Well, I musttell you about the three, but you must keep it a secret, dear, fromevery one except, of course, Jonathan.  You will tell him, because Iwould, if I were in your place, certainly tell Arthur.  A womanought to tell her husband everything.  Don't you think so, dear?  AndI must be fair.  Men like women, certainly their wives, to be quiteas fair as they are.  And women, I am afraid, are not always quiteas fair as they should be.Well, my dear, number One came just before lunch.  I told you ofhim, Dr. John Seward, the lunatic asylum man, with the strong jawand the good forehead.  He was very cool outwardly, but was nervousall the same.  He had evidently been schooling himself as to allsorts of little things, and remembered them, but he almost managedto sit down on his silk hat, which men don't generally do when theyare cool, and then when he wanted to appear at ease he kept playingwith a lancet in a way that made me nearly scream.  He spoke to me,Mina, very straightforwardly.  He told me how dear I was to him,though he had known me so little, and what his life would be with meto help and cheer him.  He was going to tell me how unhappy he wouldbe if I did not care for him, but when he saw me cry he said he wasa brute and would not add to my present trouble.  Then he broke offand asked if I could love him in time, and when I shook my head hishands trembled, and then with some hesitation he asked me if I caredalready for any one else.  He put it very nicely, saying that he didnot want to wring my confidence from me, but only to know, becauseif a woman's heart was free a man might have hope.  And then, Mina,I felt a sort of duty to tell him that there was some one.  I onlytold him that much, and then he stood up, and he looked very strongand very grave as he took both my hands in his and said he hoped Iwould be happy, and that If I ever wanted a friend I must count himone of my best.Oh, Mina dear, I can't help crying, and you must excuse this letterbeing all blotted.  Being proposed to is all very nice and all thatsort of thing, but it isn't at all a happy thing when you have tosee a poor fellow, whom you know loves you honestly, going away andlooking all broken hearted, and to know that, no matter what he maysay at the moment, you are passing out of his life.  My dear, I muststop here at present, I feel so miserable, though I am so happy.Evening.Arthur has just gone, and I feel in better spirits than when Ileft off, so I can go on telling you about the day.Well, my dear, number Two came after lunch.  He is such a nicefellow, an American from Texas, and he looks so young and so freshthat it seems almost impossible that he has been to so many placesand has such adventures.  I sympathize with poor Desdemona when shehad such a stream poured in her ear, even by a black man.  I supposethat we women are such cowards that we think a man will save us fromfears, and we marry him.  I know now what I would do if I were a manand wanted to make a girl love me.  No, I don't, for there was Mr.Morris telling us his stories, and Arthur never told any, andyet . . .My dear, I am somewhat previous.  Mr. Quincy P. Morris found mealone.  It seems that a man always does find a girl alone.  No, hedoesn't, for Arthur tried twice to make a chance, and I helping himall I could, I am not ashamed to say it now.  I must tell youbeforehand that Mr. Morris doesn't always speak slang, that is tosay, he never does so to strangers or before them, for he is reallywell educated and has exquisite manners, but he found out that itamused me to hear him talk American slang, and whenever I waspresent, and there was no one to be shocked, he said such funnythings.  I am afraid, my dear, he has to invent it all, for it fitsexactly into whatever else he has to say.  But this is a way slanghas.  I do not know myself if I shall ever speak slang.  I do notknow if Arthur likes it, as I have never heard him use any as yet.Well, Mr. Morris sat down beside me and looked as happy and jolly ashe could, but I could see all the same that he was very nervous.  Hetook my hand in his, and said ever so sweetly . . ."Miss Lucy, I know I ain't good enough to regulate the fixin's ofyour little shoes, but I guess if you wait till you find a man thatis you will go join them seven young women with the lamps when youquit.  Won't you just hitch up alongside of me and let us go downthe long road together, driving in double harness?"Well, he did look so good humoured and so jolly that it didn't seemhalf so hard to refuse him as it did poor Dr. Seward.  So I said, aslightly as I could, that I did not know anything of hitching, andthat I wasn't broken to harness at all yet.  Then he said that hehad spoken in a light manner, and he hoped that if he had made amistake in doing so on so grave, so momentous, and occasion for him,I would forgive him.  He really did look serious when he was sayingit, and I couldn't help feeling a sort of exultation that he wasnumber Two in one day.  And then, my dear, before I could say a wordhe began pouring out a perfect torrent of love-making, laying hisvery heart and soul at my feet.  He looked so earnest over it that Ishall never again think that a man must be playful always, and neverearnest, because he is merry at times.  I suppose he saw somethingin my face which checked him, for he suddenly stopped, and said witha sort of manly fervour that I could have loved him for if I hadbeen free . . ."Lucy, you are an honest hearted girl, I know.  I should not be herespeaking to you as I am now if I did not believe you clean grit,right through to the very depths of your soul.  Tell me, like onegood fellow to another, is there any one else that you care for?And if there is I'll never trouble you a hair's breadth again, butwill be, if you will let me, a very faithful friend."My dear Mina, why are men so noble when we women are so littleworthy of them?  Here was I almost making fun of this great hearted,true gentleman.  I burst into tears, I am afraid, my dear, you willthink this a very sloppy letter in more ways than one, and I reallyfelt very badly.Why can't they let a girl marry three men, or as many aswant her, and save all this trouble?  But this is heresy,and I must not say it.  I am glad to say that, though I wascrying, I was able to look into Mr. Morris' brave eyes, andI told him out straight . . ."Yes, there is some one I love, though he has not told meyet that he even loves me."  I was right to speak to him sofrankly, for quite a light came into his face, and he putout both his hands and took mine, I think I put them intohis, and said in a hearty way . . ."That's my brave girl.  It's better worth being late for a chance ofwinning you than being in time for any other girl in the world.Don't cry, my dear.  If it's for me, I'm a hard nut to crack, and Itake it standing up.  If that other fellow doesn't know hishappiness, well, he'd better look for it soon, or he'll have to dealwith me.  Little girl, your honesty and pluck have made me a friend,and that's rarer than a lover, it's more selfish anyhow.  My dear,I'm going to have a pretty lonely walk between this and KingdomCome.  Won't you give me one kiss?  It'll be something to keep offthe darkness now and then.  You can, you know, if you like, for thatother good fellow, or you could not love him, hasn't spoken yet."That quite won me, Mina, for it was brave and sweet of him,and noble too, to a rival, wasn't it?  And he so sad, so Ileant over and kissed him.He stood up with my two hands in his, and as he looked down into myface, I am afraid I was blushing very much, he said, "Little girl, Ihold your hand, and you've kissed me, and if these things don't makeus friends nothing ever will.  Thank you for your sweet honesty tome, and goodbye."He wrung my hand, and taking up his hat, went straight out of theroom without looking back, without a tear or a quiver or a pause,and I am crying like a baby.Oh, why must a man like that be made unhappy when there are lots ofgirls about who would worship the very ground he trod on?  I know Iwould if I were free, only I don't want to be free.  My dear, thisquite upset me, and I feel I cannot write of happiness just at once,after telling you of it, and I don't wish to tell of the numberThree until it can be all happy.  Ever your loving . . .LucyP.S.--Oh, about number Three, I needn't tell you of numberThree, need I?  Besides, it was all so confused.  It seemedonly a moment from his coming into the room till both hisarms were round me, and he was kissing me.  I am very, veryhappy, and I don't know what I have done to deserve it.  Imust only try in the future to show that I am not ungratefulto God for all His goodness to me in sending to me such alover, such a husband, and such a friend.Goodbye.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY (Kept in phonograph)25 May.--Ebb tide in appetite today.  Cannot eat, cannot rest, sodiary instead.  Since my rebuff of yesterday I have a sort of emptyfeeling.  Nothing in the world seems of sufficient importance to beworth the doing.  As I knew that the only cure for this sort of thingwas work, I went amongst the patients.  I picked out one who hasafforded me a study of much interest.  He is so quaint that I amdetermined to understand him as well as I can.  Today I seemed to getnearer than ever before to the heart of his mystery.I questioned him more fully than I had ever done, with a view tomaking myself master of the facts of his hallucination.  In my mannerof doing it there was, I now see, something of cruelty.  I seemed towish to keep him to the point of his madness, a thing which I avoidwith the patients as I would the mouth of hell.(Mem., Under what circumstances would I not avoid the pit of hell?)Omnia Romae venalia sunt.  Hell has its price!  If there be anythingbehind this instinct it will be valuable to trace it afterwardsaccurately, so I had better commence to do so, therefore . . .R. M, Renfield, age 59.  Sanguine temperament, great physicalstrength, morbidly excitable, periods of gloom, ending in some fixedidea which I cannot make out.  I presume that the sanguine temperamentitself and the disturbing influence end in a mentally-accomplishedfinish, a possibly dangerous man, probably dangerous if unselfish.  Inselfish men caution is as secure an armour for their foes as forthemselves.  What I think of on this point is, when self is the fixedpoint the centripetal force is balanced with the centrifugal.  Whenduty, a cause, etc., is the fixed point, the latter force isparamount, and only accident or a series of accidents can balance it.LETTER, QUINCEY P. MORRIS TO HON.  ARTHUR HOLMOOD25 May.My dear Art,We've told yarns by the campfire in the prairies, and dressed oneanother's wounds after trying a landing at the Marquesas, and drunkhealths on the shore of Titicaca.  There are more yarns to be told,and other wounds to be healed, and another health to be drunk.Won't you let this be at my campfire tomorrow night?  I have nohesitation in asking you, as I know a certain lady is engaged to acertain dinner party, and that you are free.  There will only be oneother, our old pal at the Korea, Jack Seward.  He's coming, too, andwe both want to mingle our weeps over the wine cup, and to drink ahealth with all our hearts to the happiest man in all the wideworld, who has won the noblest heart that God has made and bestworth winning.  We promise you a hearty welcome, and a lovinggreeting, and a health as true as your own right hand.  We shallboth swear to leave you at home if you drink too deep to a certainpair of eyes.  Come!Yours, as ever and always,Quincey P. MorrisTELEGRAM FROM ARTHUR HOLMWOOD TO QUINCEY P. MORRIS26 MayCount me in every time.  I bear messages which will make bothyour ears tingle.ArtCHAPTER 6MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL24 July.  Whitby.--Lucy met me at the station, looking sweeter andlovelier than ever, and we drove up to the house at the Crescent inwhich they have rooms.  This is a lovely place.  The little river, theEsk, runs through a deep valley, which broadens out as it comes nearthe harbour.  A great viaduct runs across, with high piers, throughwhich the view seems somehow further away than it really is.  Thevalley is beautifully green, and it is so steep that when you are onthe high land on either side you look right across it, unless you arenear enough to see down.  The houses of the old town--the side awayfrom us, are all red-roofed, and seem piled up one over the otheranyhow, like the pictures we see of Nuremberg.  Right over the town isthe ruin of Whitby Abbey, which was sacked by the Danes, and which isthe scene of part of "Marmion," where the girl was built up in thewall.  It is a most noble ruin, of immense size, and full of beautifuland romantic bits.  There is a legend that a white lady is seen in oneof the windows.  Between it and the town there is another church, theparish one, round which is a big graveyard, all full of tombstones.This is to my mind the nicest spot in Whitby, for it lies right overthe town, and has a full view of the harbour and all up the bay towhere the headland called Kettleness stretches out into the sea.  Itdescends so steeply over the harbour that part of the bank has fallenaway, and some of the graves have been destroyed.In one place part of the stonework of the graves stretches out overthe sandy pathway far below.  There are walks, with seats beside them,through the churchyard, and people go and sit there all day longlooking at the beautiful view and enjoying the breeze.I shall come and sit here often myself and work.  Indeed, I am writingnow, with my book on my knee, and listening to the talk of three oldmen who are sitting beside me.  They seem to do nothing all day butsit here and talk.The harbour lies below me, with, on the far side, one long granitewall stretching out into the sea, with a curve outwards at the end ofit, in the middle of which is a lighthouse.  A heavy seawall runsalong outside of it.  On the near side, the seawall makes an elbowcrooked inversely, and its end too has a lighthouse.  Between the twopiers there is a narrow opening into the harbour, which then suddenlywidens.It is nice at high water, but when the tide is out it shoals away tonothing, and there is merely the stream of the Esk, running betweenbanks of sand, with rocks here and there.  Outside the harbour on thisside there rises for about half a mile a great reef, the sharp ofwhich runs straight out from behind the south lighthouse.  At the endof it is a buoy with a bell, which swings in bad weather, and sends ina mournful sound on the wind.They have a legend here that when a ship is lost bells are heard out atsea.  I must ask the old man about this.  He is coming this way . . .He is a funny old man.  He must be awfully old, for his face isgnarled and twisted like the bark of a tree.  He tells me that he isnearly a hundred, and that he was a sailor in the Greenland fishingfleet when Waterloo was fought.  He is, I am afraid, a very scepticalperson, for when I asked him about the bells at sea and the White Ladyat the abbey he said very brusquely,"I wouldn't fash masel' about them, miss.  Them things be all woreout.  Mind, I don't say that they never was, but I do say that theywasn't in my time.  They be all very well for comers and trippers, an'the like, but not for a nice young lady like you.  Them feet-folksfrom York and Leeds that be always eatin' cured herrin's and drinkin'tea an' lookin' out to buy cheap jet would creed aught.  I wondermasel' who'd be bothered tellin' lies to them, even the newspapers,which is full of fool-talk."I thought he would be a good person to learn interesting things from,so I asked him if he would mind telling me something about the whalefishing in the old days.  He was just settling himself to begin whenthe clock struck six, whereupon he laboured to get up, and said,"I must gang ageeanwards home now, miss.  My grand-daughter doesn'tlike to be kept waitin' when the tea is ready, for it takes me time tocrammle aboon the grees, for there be a many of 'em, and miss, I lackbelly-timber sairly by the clock."He hobbled away, and I could see him hurrying, as well as he could,down the steps.  The steps are a great feature on the place.  Theylead from the town to the church, there are hundreds of them, I do notknow how many, and they wind up in a delicate curve.  The slope is sogentle that a horse could easily walk up and down them.I think they must originally have had something to do with the abbey.I shall go home too.  Lucy went out, visiting with her mother, and asthey were only duty calls, I did not go.1 August.--I came up here an hour ago with Lucy, and we had a mostinteresting talk with my old friend and the two others who always comeand join him.  He is evidently the Sir Oracle of them, and I shouldthink must have been in his time a most dictatorial person.He will not admit anything, and down faces everybody.  If he can'tout-argue them he bullies them, and then takes their silence foragreement with his views.Lucy was looking sweetly pretty in her white lawn frock.  She has gota beautiful colour since she has been here.I noticed that the old men did not lose any time in coming and sittingnear her when we sat down.  She is so sweet with old people, I thinkthey all fell in love with her on the spot.  Even my old man succumbedand did not contradict her, but gave me double share instead.  I gothim on the subject of the legends, and he went off at once into a sortof sermon.  I must try to remember it and put it down."It be all fool-talk, lock, stock, and barrel, that's what it be andnowt else.  These bans an' wafts an' boh-ghosts an' bar-guests an'bogles an' all anent them is only fit to set bairns an' dizzy womena'belderin'.  They be nowt but air-blebs.  They, an' all grims an' signsan' warnin's, be all invented by parsons an' illsome berk-bodies an'railway touters to skeer an' scunner hafflin's, an' to get folks to dosomethin' that they don't other incline to.  It makes me ireful tothink o' them.  Why, it's them that, not content with printin' lies onpaper an' preachin' them out of pulpits, does want to be cuttin' themon the tombstones.  Look here all around you in what airt ye will.  Allthem steans, holdin' up their heads as well as they can out of theirpride, is acant, simply tumblin' down with the weight o' the lieswrote on them, 'Here lies the body' or 'Sacred to the memory' wrote onall of them, an' yet in nigh half of them there bean't no bodies atall, an' the memories of them bean't cared a pinch of snuff about,much less sacred.  Lies all of them, nothin' but lies of one kind oranother!  My gog, but it'll be a quare scowderment at the Day ofJudgment when they come tumblin' up in their death-sarks, all joupedtogether an' trying' to drag their tombsteans with them to prove howgood they was, some of them trimmlin' an' dithering, with their handsthat dozzened an' slippery from lyin' in the sea that they can't evenkeep their gurp o' them."I could see from the old fellow's self-satisfied air and the way inwhich he looked round for the approval of his cronies that he was"showing off," so I put in a word to keep him going."Oh, Mr. Swales, you can't be serious.  Surely these tombstones arenot all wrong?""Yabblins!  There may be a poorish few not wrong, savin' where theymake out the people too good, for there be folk that do think abalm-bowl be like the sea, if only it be their own.  The whole thingbe only lies.  Now look you here.  You come here a stranger, an' yousee this kirkgarth."I nodded, for I thought it better to assent, though I did not quiteunderstand his dialect.  I knew it had something to do with thechurch.He went on, "And you consate that all these steans be aboon folk thatbe haped here, snod an' snog?"  I assented again.  "Then that be justwhere the lie comes in.  Why, there be scores of these laybeds that betoom as old Dun's 'baccabox on Friday night."He nudged one of his companions, and they all laughed.  "And, my gog!How could they be otherwise?  Look at that one, the aftest abaft thebier-bank, read it!"I went over and read, "Edward Spencelagh, master mariner, murdered bypirates off the coast of Andres, April, 1854, age 30."  When I cameback Mr. Swales went on,"Who brought him home, I wonder, to hap him here?  Murdered off thecoast of Andres!  An' you consated his body lay under!  Why, I couldname ye a dozen whose bones lie in the Greenland seas above," hepointed northwards, "or where the currants may have drifted them.There be the steans around ye.  Ye can, with your young eyes, read thesmall print of the lies from here.  This Braithwaite Lowery, I knewhis father, lost in the Lively off Greenland in '20, or AndrewWoodhouse, drowned in the same seas in 1777, or John Paxton, drownedoff Cape Farewell a year later, or old John Rawlings, whosegrandfather sailed with me, drowned in the Gulf of Finland in '50.  Doye think that all these men will have to make a rush to Whitby whenthe trumpet sounds?  I have me antherums aboot it!  I tell ye thatwhen they got here they'd be jommlin' and jostlin' one another thatway that it 'ud be like a fight up on the ice in the old days, whenwe'd be at one another from daylight to dark, an' tryin' to tie up ourcuts by the aurora borealis."  This was evidently local pleasantry, forthe old man cackled over it, and his cronies joined in with gusto."But," I said, "surely you are not quite correct, for you start on theassumption that all the poor people, or their spirits, will have totake their tombstones with them on the Day of Judgment.  Do you thinkthat will be really necessary?""Well, what else be they tombstones for?  Answer me that, miss!""To please their relatives, I suppose.""To please their relatives, you suppose!"  This he said with intensescorn.  "How will it pleasure their relatives to know that lies iswrote over them, and that everybody in the place knows that they belies?"He pointed to a stone at our feet which had been laid down as a slab,on which the seat was rested, close to the edge of the cliff.  "Readthe lies on that thruff-stone," he said.The letters were upside down to me from where I sat, but Lucy was moreopposite to them, so she leant over and read, "Sacred to the memory ofGeorge Canon, who died, in the hope of a glorious resurrection, onJuly 29, 1873, falling from the rocks at Kettleness.  This tomb waserected by his sorrowing mother to her dearly beloved son.  'He was theonly son of his mother, and she was a widow.'  Really, Mr. Swales, Idon't see anything very funny in that!"  She spoke her comment verygravely and somewhat severely."Ye don't see aught funny!  Ha-ha!  But that's because ye don't gawmthe sorrowin' mother was a hell-cat that hated him because he wasacrewk'd, a regular lamiter he was, an' he hated her so that hecommitted suicide in order that she mightn't get an insurance she puton his life.  He blew nigh the top of his head off with an old musketthat they had for scarin' crows with.  'Twarn't for crows then, for itbrought the clegs and the dowps to him.  That's the way he fell offthe rocks.  And, as to hopes of a glorious resurrection, I've oftenheard him say masel' that he hoped he'd go to hell, for his mother wasso pious that she'd be sure to go to heaven, an' he didn't want toaddle where she was.  Now isn't that stean at any rate," he hammeredit with his stick as he spoke, "a pack of lies?  And won't it makeGabriel keckle when Geordie comes pantin' ut the grees with thetompstean balanced on his hump, and asks to be took as evidence!"I did not know what to say, but Lucy turned the conversation as shesaid, rising up, "Oh, why did you tell us of this?  It is my favouriteseat, and I cannot leave it, and now I find I must go on sitting overthe grave of a suicide.""That won't harm ye, my pretty, an' it may make poor Geordie gladsometo have so trim a lass sittin' on his lap.  That won't hurt ye.  Why,I've sat here off an' on for nigh twenty years past, an' it hasn'tdone me no harm.  Don't ye fash about them as lies under ye, or thatdoesn' lie there either!  It'll be time for ye to be getting scartwhen ye see the tombsteans all run away with, and the place as bare asa stubble-field.  There's the clock, and I must gang.  My service toye, ladies!"  And off he hobbled.Lucy and I sat awhile, and it was all so beautiful before us that wetook hands as we sat, and she told me all over again about Arthur andtheir coming marriage.  That made me just a little heart-sick, for Ihaven't heard from Jonathan for a whole month.The same day.  I came up here alone, for I am very sad.  There was noletter for me.  I hope there cannot be anything the matter withJonathan.  The clock has just struck nine.  I see the lights scatteredall over the town, sometimes in rows where the streets are, andsometimes singly.  They run right up the Esk and die away in the curveof the valley.  To my left the view is cut off by a black line of roofof the old house next to the abbey.  The sheep and lambs are bleatingin the fields away behind me, and there is a clatter of donkeys' hoofsup the paved road below.  The band on the pier is playing a harshwaltz in good time, and further along the quay there is a SalvationArmy meeting in a back street.  Neither of the bands hears the other,but up here I hear and see them both.  I wonder where Jonathan is andif he is thinking of me!  I wish he were here.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY5 June.--The case of Renfield grows more interesting the more I get tounderstand the man.  He has certain qualities very largely developed,selfishness, secrecy, and purpose.I wish I could get at what is the object of the latter.  He seems tohave some settled scheme of his own, but what it is I do not know.His redeeming quality is a love of animals, though, indeed, he hassuch curious turns in it that I sometimes imagine he is onlyabnormally cruel.  His pets are of odd sorts.Just now his hobby is catching flies.  He has at present such aquantity that I have had myself to expostulate.  To my astonishment,he did not break out into a fury, as I expected, but took the matterin simple seriousness.  He thought for a moment, and then said, "May Ihave three days?  I shall clear them away."  Of course, I said thatwould do.  I must watch him.18 June.--He has turned his mind now to spiders, and has got severalvery big fellows in a box.  He keeps feeding them his flies, and thenumber of the latter is becoming sensibly diminished, although he hasused half his food in attracting more flies from outside to his room.1 July.--His spiders are now becoming as great a nuisance as hisflies, and today I told him that he must get rid of them.He looked very sad at this, so I said that he must some of them, atall events.  He cheerfully acquiesced in this, and I gave him the sametime as before for reduction.He disgusted me much while with him, for when a horrid blowfly,bloated with some carrion food, buzzed into the room, he caught it,held it exultantly for a few moments between his finger and thumb, andbefore I knew what he was going to do, put it in his mouth and ate it.I scolded him for it, but he argued quietly that it was very good andvery wholesome, that it was life, strong life, and gave life to him.This gave me an idea, or the rudiment of one.  I must watch how hegets rid of his spiders.He has evidently some deep problem in his mind, for he keeps a littlenotebook in which he is always jotting down something.  Whole pages ofit are filled with masses of figures, generally single numbers addedup in batches, and then the totals added in batches again, as thoughhe were focussing some account, as the auditors put it.8 July.--There is a method in his madness, and the rudimentary idea inmy mind is growing.  It will be a whole idea soon, and then, oh,unconscious cerebration, you will have to give the wall to yourconscious brother.I kept away from my friend for a few days, so that I might notice ifthere were any change.  Things remain as they were except that he hasparted with some of his pets and got a new one.He has managed to get a sparrow, and has already partially tamed it.His means of taming is simple, for already the spiders havediminished.  Those that do remain, however, are well fed, for he stillbrings in the flies by tempting them with his food.19 July--We are progressing.  My friend has now a whole colony ofsparrows, and his flies and spiders are almost obliterated.  When Icame in he ran to me and said he wanted to ask me a great favour, avery, very great favour.  And as he spoke, he fawned on me like a dog.I asked him what it was, and he said, with a sort of rapture in hisvoice and bearing, "A kitten, a nice, little, sleek playful kitten,that I can play with, and teach, and feed, and feed, and feed!"I was not unprepared for this request, for I had noticed how his petswent on increasing in size and vivacity, but I did not care that hispretty family of tame sparrows should be wiped out in the same manneras the flies and spiders.  So I said I would see about it, and askedhim if he would not rather have a cat than a kitten.His eagerness betrayed him as he answered, "Oh, yes, I would like acat!  I only asked for a kitten lest you should refuse me a cat.  Noone would refuse me a kitten, would they?"I shook my head, and said that at present I feared it would not bepossible, but that I would see about it.  His face fell, and I couldsee a warning of danger in it, for there was a sudden fierce, sidelonglook which meant killing.  The man is an undeveloped homicidalmaniac.  I shall test him with his present craving and see how it willwork out, then I shall know more.10 pm.--I have visited him again and found him sitting in a cornerbrooding.  When I came in he threw himself on his knees before me andimplored me to let him have a cat, that his salvation depended uponit.I was firm, however, and told him that he could not have it, whereuponhe went without a word, and sat down, gnawing his fingers, in thecorner where I had found him.  I shall see him in the morning early.20 July.--Visited Renfield very early, before attendant went hisrounds.  Found him up and humming a tune.  He was spreading out hissugar, which he had saved, in the window, and was manifestly beginninghis fly catching again, and beginning it cheerfully and with a goodgrace.I looked around for his birds, and not seeing them, asked him wherethey were.  He replied, without turning round, that they had all flownaway.  There were a few feathers about the room and on his pillow adrop of blood.  I said nothing, but went and told the keeper to reportto me if there were anything odd about him during the day.11 am.--The attendant has just been to see me to say that Renfield hasbeen very sick and has disgorged a whole lot of feathers.  "My beliefis, doctor," he said, "that he has eaten his birds, and that he justtook and ate them raw!"11 pm.--I gave Renfield a strong opiate tonight, enough to make evenhim sleep, and took away his pocketbook to look at it.  The thoughtthat has been buzzing about my brain lately is complete, and thetheory proved.My homicidal maniac is of a peculiar kind.  I shall have to invent anew classification for him, and call him a zoophagous (life-eating)maniac.  What he desires is to absorb as many lives as he can, and hehas laid himself out to achieve it in a cumulative way.  He gave manyflies to one spider and many spiders to one bird, and then wanted acat to eat the many birds.  What would have been his later steps?It would almost be worth while to complete the experiment.  It mightbe done if there were only a sufficient cause.  Men sneered atvivisection, and yet look at its results today!  Why not advancescience in its most difficult and vital aspect, the knowledge of thebrain?Had I even the secret of one such mind, did I hold the key to thefancy of even one lunatic, I might advance my own branch of science toa pitch compared with which Burdon-Sanderson's physiology or Ferrier'sbrain knowledge would be as nothing.  If only there were a sufficientcause!  I must not think too much of this, or I may be tempted.  Agood cause might turn the scale with me, for may not I too be of anexceptional brain, congenitally?How well the man reasoned.  Lunatics always do within their own scope.I wonder at how many lives he values a man, or if at only one.  He hasclosed the account most accurately, and today begun a new record.  Howmany of us begin a new record with each day of our lives?To me it seems only yesterday that my whole life ended with my newhope, and that truly I began a new record.  So it shall be until theGreat Recorder sums me up and closes my ledger account with a balanceto profit or loss.Oh, Lucy, Lucy, I cannot be angry with you, nor can I be angry with myfriend whose happiness is yours, but I must only wait on hopeless andwork.  Work!  Work!If I could have as strong a cause as my poor mad friend there, a good,unselfish cause to make me work, that would be indeed happiness.MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL26 July.--I am anxious, and it soothes me to express myself here.  Itis like whispering to one's self and listening at the same time.  Andthere is also something about the shorthand symbols that makes itdifferent from writing.  I am unhappy about Lucy and about Jonathan.I had not heard from Jonathan for some time, and was very concerned,but yesterday dear Mr. Hawkins, who is always so kind, sent me aletter from him.  I had written asking him if he had heard, and hesaid the enclosed had just been received.  It is only a line datedfrom Castle Dracula, and says that he is just starting for home.  Thatis not like Jonathan.  I do not understand it, and it makes me uneasy.Then, too, Lucy, although she is so well, has lately taken to her oldhabit of walking in her sleep.  Her mother has spoken to me about it,and we have decided that I am to lock the door of our room everynight.Mrs. Westenra has got an idea that sleep-walkers always go out onroofs of houses and along the edges of cliffs and then get suddenlywakened and fall over with a despairing cry that echoes all over theplace.Poor dear, she is naturally anxious about Lucy, and she tells me thather husband, Lucy's father, had the same habit, that he would get upin the night and dress himself and go out, if he were not stopped.Lucy is to be married in the autumn, and she is already planning outher dresses and how her house is to be arranged.  I sympathise withher, for I do the same, only Jonathan and I will start in life in avery simple way, and shall have to try to make both ends meet.Mr. Holmwood, he is the Hon. Arthur Holmwood, only son of LordGodalming, is coming up here very shortly, as soon as he can leavetown, for his father is not very well, and I think dear Lucy iscounting the moments till he comes.She wants to take him up in the seat on the churchyard cliff and showhim the beauty of Whitby.  I daresay it is the waiting which disturbsher.  She will be all right when he arrives.27 July.--No news from Jonathan.  I am getting quite uneasy about him,though why I should I do not know, but I do wish that he would write,if it were only a single line.Lucy walks more than ever, and each night I am awakened by her movingabout the room.  Fortunately, the weather is so hot that she cannotget cold.  But still, the anxiety and the perpetually being awakenedis beginning to tell on me, and I am getting nervous and wakefulmyself.  Thank God, Lucy's health keeps up.  Mr. Holmwood has beensuddenly called to Ring to see his father, who has been takenseriously ill.  Lucy frets at the postponement of seeing him, but itdoes not touch her looks.  She is a trifle stouter, and her cheeks area lovely rose-pink.  She has lost the anemic look which she had.  Ipray it will all last.3 August.--Another week gone by, and no news from Jonathan, not evento Mr. Hawkins, from whom I have heard.  Oh, I do hope he is not ill.He surely would have written.  I look at that last letter of his, butsomehow it does not satisfy me.  It does not read like him, and yet itis his writing.  There is no mistake of that.Lucy has not walked much in her sleep the last week, but there is anodd concentration about her which I do not understand, even in hersleep she seems to be watching me.  She tries the door, and finding itlocked, goes about the room searching for the key.6 August.--Another three days, and no news.  This suspense is gettingdreadful.  If I only knew where to write to or where to go to, Ishould feel easier.  But no one has heard a word of Jonathan sincethat last letter.  I must only pray to God for patience.Lucy is more excitable than ever, but is otherwise well.  Last nightwas very threatening, and the fishermen say that we are in for astorm.  I must try to watch it and learn the weather signs.Today is a gray day, and the sun as I write is hidden in thick clouds,high over Kettleness.  Everything is gray except the green grass,which seems like emerald amongst it, gray earthy rock, gray clouds,tinged with the sunburst at the far edge, hang over the gray sea, intowhich the sandpoints stretch like gray figures.  The sea is tumblingin over the shallows and the sandy flats with a roar, muffled in thesea-mists drifting inland.  The horizon is lost in a gray mist.  Allvastness, the clouds are piled up like giant rocks, and there is a'brool' over the sea that sounds like some passage of doom.  Darkfigures are on the beach here and there, sometimes half shrouded inthe mist, and seem 'men like trees walking'.  The fishing boats areracing for home, and rise and dip in the ground swell as they sweepinto the harbour, bending to the scuppers.  Here comes old Mr. Swales.He is making straight for me, and I can see, by the way he lifts hishat, that he wants to talk.I have been quite touched by the change in the poor old man.  When hesat down beside me, he said in a very gentle way, "I want to saysomething to you, miss."I could see he was not at ease, so I took his poor old wrinkled hand inmine and asked him to speak fully.So he said, leaving his hand in mine, "I'm afraid, my deary, that Imust have shocked you by all the wicked things I've been sayin' aboutthe dead, and such like, for weeks past, but I didn't mean them, and Iwant ye to remember that when I'm gone.  We aud folks that be daffled,and with one foot abaft the krok-hooal, don't altogether like to thinkof it, and we don't want to feel scart of it, and that's why I've tookto makin' light of it, so that I'd cheer up my own heart a bit.  But,Lord love ye, miss, I ain't afraid of dyin', not a bit, only I don'twant to die if I can help it.  My time must be nigh at hand now, for Ibe aud, and a hundred years is too much for any man to expect.  AndI'm so nigh it that the Aud Man is already whettin' his scythe.  Yesee, I can't get out o' the habit of caffin' about it all at once.The chafts will wag as they be used to.  Some day soon the Angel ofDeath will sound his trumpet for me.  But don't ye dooal an' greet, mydeary!"--for he saw that I was crying--"if he should come this verynight I'd not refuse to answer his call.  For life be, after all, onlya waitin' for somethin' else than what we're doin', and death be allthat we can rightly depend on.  But I'm content, for it's comin' tome, my deary, and comin' quick.  It may be comin' while we be lookin'and wonderin'.  Maybe it's in that wind out over the sea that'sbringin' with it loss and wreck, and sore distress, and sad hearts.Look!  Look!" he cried suddenly.  "There's something in that wind andin the hoast beyont that sounds, and looks, and tastes, and smellslike death.  It's in the air.  I feel it comin'.  Lord, make me answercheerful, when my call comes!"  He held up his arms devoutly, andraised his hat.  His mouth moved as though he were praying.  After afew minutes' silence, he got up, shook hands with me, and blessed me,and said goodbye, and hobbled off.  It all touched me, and upset mevery much.I was glad when the coastguard came along, with his spyglass under hisarm.  He stopped to talk with me, as he always does, but all the timekept looking at a strange ship."I can't make her out," he said.  "She's a Russian, by the look ofher.  But she's knocking about in the queerest way.  She doesn't knowher mind a bit.  She seems to see the storm coming, but can't decidewhether to run up north in the open, or to put in here.  Look thereagain!  She is steered mighty strangely, for she doesn't mind the handon the wheel, changes about with every puff of wind.  We'll hear moreof her before this time tomorrow."CHAPTER 7CUTTING FROM "THE DAILYGRAPH", 8 AUGUST(PASTED IN MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL)From a correspondent.Whitby.One of the greatest and suddenest storms on record has just beenexperienced here, with results both strange and unique.  The weatherhad been somewhat sultry, but not to any degree uncommon in themonth of August.  Saturday evening was as fine as was ever known,and the great body of holiday-makers laid out yesterday for visitsto Mulgrave Woods, Robin Hood's Bay, Rig Mill, Runswick, Staithes,and the various trips in the neighborhood of Whitby.  The steamersEmma and Scarborough made trips up and down the coast, and there wasan unusual amount of 'tripping' both to and from Whitby.  The daywas unusually fine till the afternoon, when some of the gossips whofrequent the East Cliff churchyard, and from the commanding eminencewatch the wide sweep of sea visible to the north and east, calledattention to a sudden show of 'mares tails' high in the sky to thenorthwest.  The wind was then blowing from the south-west in themild degree which in barometrical language is ranked 'No. 2, lightbreeze.'The coastguard on duty at once made report, and one old fisherman,who for more than half a century has kept watch on weather signsfrom the East Cliff, foretold in an emphatic manner the coming of asudden storm.  The approach of sunset was so very beautiful, sogrand in its masses of splendidly coloured clouds, that there wasquite an assemblage on the walk along the cliff in the oldchurchyard to enjoy the beauty.  Before the sun dipped below theblack mass of Kettleness, standing boldly athwart the western sky,its downward way was marked by myriad clouds of every sunset colour,flame, purple, pink, green, violet, and all the tints of gold, withhere and there masses not large, but of seemingly absoluteblackness, in all sorts of shapes, as well outlined as colossalsilhouettes.  The experience was not lost on the painters, anddoubtless some of the sketches of the 'Prelude to the Great Storm'will grace the R. A and R. I. walls in May next.More than one captain made up his mind then and there that his'cobble' or his 'mule', as they term the different classes of boats,would remain in the harbour till the storm had passed.  The windfell away entirely during the evening, and at midnight there was adead calm, a sultry heat, and that prevailing intensity which, onthe approach of thunder, affects persons of a sensitive nature.There were but few lights in sight at sea, for even the coastingsteamers, which usually hug the shore so closely, kept well toseaward, and but few fishing boats were in sight.  The only sailnoticeable was a foreign schooner with all sails set, which wasseemingly going westwards. The foolhardiness or ignorance of herofficers was a prolific theme for comment whilst she remained insight, and efforts were made to signal her to reduce sail in theface of her danger.  Before the night shut down she was seen withsails idly flapping as she gently rolled on the undulating swell ofthe sea."As idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean."Shortly before ten o'clock the stillness of the air grew quiteoppressive, and the silence was so marked that the bleating of asheep inland or the barking of a dog in the town was distinctlyheard, and the band on the pier, with its lively French air, waslike a dischord in the great harmony of nature's silence.  A littleafter midnight came a strange sound from over the sea, and highoverhead the air began to carry a strange, faint, hollow booming.Then without warning the tempest broke.  With a rapidity which, atthe time, seemed incredible, and even afterwards is impossible torealize, the whole aspect of nature at once became convulsed.  Thewaves rose in growing fury, each over-topping its fellow, till in avery few minutes the lately glassy sea was like a roaring anddevouring monster.  White-crested waves beat madly on the levelsands and rushed up the shelving cliffs.  Others broke over thepiers, and with their spume swept the lanthorns of the lighthouseswhich rise from the end of either pier of Whitby Harbour.The wind roared like thunder, and blew with such force that it waswith difficulty that even strong men kept their feet, or clung withgrim clasp to the iron stanchions.  It was found necessary to clearthe entire pier from the mass of onlookers, or else the fatalitiesof the night would have increased manifold.  To add to thedifficulties and dangers of the time, masses of sea-fog camedrifting inland.  White, wet clouds, which swept by in ghostlyfashion, so dank and damp and cold that it needed but little effortof imagination to think that the spirits of those lost at sea weretouching their living brethren with the clammy hands of death, andmany a one shuddered as the wreaths of sea-mist swept by.At times the mist cleared, and the sea for some distance could beseen in the glare of the lightning, which came thick and fast,followed by such peals of thunder that the whole sky overhead seemedtrembling under the shock of the footsteps of the storm.Some of the scenes thus revealed were of immeasurable grandeur andof absorbing interest.  The sea, running mountains high, threwskywards with each wave mighty masses of white foam, which thetempest seemed to snatch at and whirl away into space.  Here andthere a fishing boat, with a rag of sail, running madly for shelterbefore the blast, now and again the white wings of a storm-tossedseabird.  On the summit of the East Cliff the new searchlight wasready for experiment, but had not yet been tried.  The officers incharge of it got it into working order, and in the pauses ofonrushing mist swept with it the surface of the sea.  Once or twiceits service was most effective, as when a fishing boat, with gunwaleunder water, rushed into the harbour, able, by the guidance of thesheltering light, to avoid the danger of dashing against the piers.As each boat achieved the safety of the port there was a shout ofjoy from the mass of people on the shore, a shout which for a momentseemed to cleave the gale and was then swept away in its rush.Before long the searchlight discovered some distance away a schoonerwith all sails set, apparently the same vessel which had beennoticed earlier in the evening.  The wind had by this time backed tothe east, and there was a shudder amongst the watchers on the cliffas they realized the terrible danger in which she now was.Between her and the port lay the great flat reef on which so manygood ships have from time to time suffered, and, with the windblowing from its present quarter, it would be quite impossible thatshe should fetch the entrance of the harbour.It was now nearly the hour of high tide, but the waves were so greatthat in their troughs the shallows of the shore were almost visible,and the schooner, with all sails set, was rushing with such speedthat, in the words of one old salt, "she must fetch up somewhere, ifit was only in hell".  Then came another rush of sea-fog, greaterthan any hitherto, a mass of dank mist, which seemed to close on allthings like a gray pall, and left available to men only the organ ofhearing, for the roar of the tempest, and the crash of the thunder,and the booming of the mighty billows came through the damp oblivioneven louder than before.  The rays of the searchlight were kept fixedon the harbour mouth across the East Pier, where the shock wasexpected, and men waited breathless.The wind suddenly shifted to the northeast, and the remnant of thesea fog melted in the blast.  And then, mirabile dictu, between thepiers, leaping from wave to wave as it rushed at headlong speed,swept the strange schooner before the blast, with all sail set, andgained the safety of the harbour.  The searchlight followed her, anda shudder ran through all who saw her, for lashed to the helm was acorpse, with drooping head, which swung horribly to and fro at eachmotion of the ship.  No other form could be seen on the deck at all.A great awe came on all as they realised that the ship, as if by amiracle, had found the harbour, unsteered save by the hand of a deadman!  However, all took place more quickly than it takes to writethese words.  The schooner paused not, but rushing across theharbour, pitched herself on that accumulation of sand and gravelwashed by many tides and many storms into the southeast corner ofthe pier jutting under the East Cliff, known locally as Tate HillPier.There was of course a considerable concussion as the vessel drove upon the sand heap.  Every spar, rope, and stay was strained, and someof the 'top-hammer' came crashing down.  But, strangest of all, thevery instant the shore was touched, an immense dog sprang up on deckfrom below, as if shot up by the concussion, and running forward,jumped from the bow on the sand.Making straight for the steep cliff, where the churchyard hangs overthe laneway to the East Pier so steeply that some of the flattombstones, thruffsteans or through-stones, as they call them inWhitby vernacular, actually project over where the sustaining cliffhas fallen away, it disappeared in the darkness, which seemedintensified just beyond the focus of the searchlight.It so happened that there was no one at the moment on Tate HillPier, as all those whose houses are in close proximity were eitherin bed or were out on the heights above.  Thus the coastguard onduty on the eastern side of the harbour, who at once ran down to thelittle pier, was the first to climb aboard.  The men working thesearchlight, after scouring the entrance of the harbour withoutseeing anything, then turned the light on the derelict and kept itthere.  The coastguard ran aft, and when he came beside the wheel,bent over to examine it, and recoiled at once as though under somesudden emotion.  This seemed to pique general curiosity, and quite anumber of people began to run.It is a good way round from the West Cliff by the Draw-bridge toTate Hill Pier, but your correspondent is a fairly good runner, andcame well ahead of the crowd.  When I arrived, however, I foundalready assembled on the pier a crowd, whom the coastguard andpolice refused to allow to come on board.  By the courtesy of thechief boatman, I was, as your correspondent, permitted to climb ondeck, and was one of a small group who saw the dead seaman whilstactually lashed to the wheel.It was no wonder that the coastguard was surprised, or even awed,for not often can such a sight have been seen.  The man was simplyfastened by his hands, tied one over the other, to a spoke of thewheel.  Between the inner hand and the wood was a crucifix, the setof beads on which it was fastened being around both wrists andwheel, and all kept fast by the binding cords.  The poor fellow mayhave been seated at one time, but the flapping and buffeting of thesails had worked through the rudder of the wheel and had dragged himto and fro, so that the cords with which he was tied had cut theflesh to the bone.Accurate note was made of the state of things, and a doctor, SurgeonJ. M. Caffyn, of 33, East Elliot Place, who came immediately afterme, declared, after making examination, that the man must have beendead for quite two days.In his pocket was a bottle, carefully corked, empty save fora little roll of paper, which proved to be the addendum tothe log.The coastguard said the man must have tied up his own hands,fastening the knots with his teeth.  The fact that a coastguard wasthe first on board may save some complications later on, in theAdmiralty Court, for coastguards cannot claim the salvage which isthe right of the first civilian entering on a derelict.  Already,however, the legal tongues are wagging, and one young law student isloudly asserting that the rights of the owner are already completelysacrificed, his property being held in contravention of the statuesof mortmain, since the tiller, as emblemship, if not proof, ofdelegated possession, is held in a dead hand.It is needless to say that the dead steersman has been reverentlyremoved from the place where he held his honourable watch and wardtill death, a steadfastness as noble as that of the youngCasabianca, and placed in the mortuary to await inquest.Already the sudden storm is passing, and its fierceness isabating.  Crowds are scattering backward, and the sky isbeginning to redden over the Yorkshire wolds.I shall send, in time for your next issue, further detailsof the derelict ship which found her way so miraculouslyinto harbour in the storm.9 August.--The sequel to the strange arrival of the derelict in thestorm last night is almost more startling than the thing itself.  Itturns out that the schooner is Russian from Varna, and is called theDemeter.  She is almost entirely in ballast of silver sand, withonly a small amount of cargo, a number of great wooden boxes filledwith mould.This cargo was consigned to a Whitby solicitor, Mr. S.F. Billington,of 7, The Crescent, who this morning went aboard and took formalpossession of the goods consigned to him.The Russian consul, too, acting for the charter-party, took formalpossession of the ship, and paid all harbour dues, etc.Nothing is talked about here today except the strange coincidence.The officials of the Board of Trade have been most exacting inseeing that every compliance has been made with existingregulations.  As the matter is to be a 'nine days wonder', they areevidently determined that there shall be no cause of othercomplaint.A good deal of interest was abroad concerning the dog which landedwhen the ship struck, and more than a few of the members of theS.P.C.A., which is very strong in Whitby, have tried to befriend theanimal.  To the general disappointment, however, it was not to befound.  It seems to have disappeared entirely from the town.  It maybe that it was frightened and made its way on to the moors, where itis still hiding in terror.There are some who look with dread on such a possibility, lest lateron it should in itself become a danger, for it is evidently a fiercebrute.  Early this morning a large dog, a half-bred mastiffbelonging to a coal merchant close to Tate Hill Pier, was found deadin the roadway opposite its master's yard.  It had been fighting,and manifestly had had a savage opponent, for its throat was tornaway, and its belly was slit open as if with a savage claw.Later.--By the kindness of the Board of Trade inspector, I have beenpermitted to look over the log book of the Demeter, which was inorder up to within three days, but contained nothing of specialinterest except as to facts of missing men.  The greatest interest,however, is with regard to the paper found in the bottle, which wastoday produced at the inquest.  And a more strange narrative thanthe two between them unfold it has not been my lot to come across.As there is no motive for concealment, I am permitted to use them,and accordingly send you a transcript, simply omitting technicaldetails of seamanship and supercargo.  It almost seems as though thecaptain had been seized with some kind of mania before he had gotwell into blue water, and that this had developed persistentlythroughout the voyage.  Of course my statement must be taken cumgrano, since I am writing from the dictation of a clerk of theRussian consul, who kindly translated for me, time being short.  LOG OF THE "DEMETER" Varna to Whitby  Written 18 July, things so strange happening, that I shall  keep accurate note henceforth till we land.  On 6 July we finished taking in cargo, silver sand and boxes  of earth.  At noon set sail.  East wind, fresh.  Crew, five  hands . . . two mates, cook, and myself, (captain).  On 11 July at dawn entered Bosphorus.  Boarded by Turkish  Customs officers.  Backsheesh.  All correct.  Under way at  4 p.m.  On 12 July through Dardanelles.  More Customs officers and  flagboat of guarding squadron.  Backsheesh again.  Work of  officers thorough, but quick.  Want us off soon.  At dark  passed into Archipelago.  On 13 July passed Cape Matapan.  Crew dissatisfied about  something.  Seemed scared, but would not speak out.  On 14 July was somewhat anxious about crew.  Men all steady  fellows, who sailed with me before.  Mate could not make out what  was wrong.  They only told him there was SOMETHING, and crossed  themselves.  Mate lost temper with one of them that day and struck  him.  Expected fierce quarrel, but all was quiet.  On 16 July mate reported in the morning that one of the  crew, Petrofsky, was missing.  Could not account for it.  Took larboard watch eight bells last night, was relieved by  Amramoff, but did not go to bunk.  Men more downcast than  ever.  All said they expected something of the kind, but  would not say more than there was SOMETHING aboard.  Mate  getting very impatient with them.  Feared some trouble  ahead.  On 17 July, yesterday, one of the men, Olgaren, came to my cabin,  and in an awestruck way confided to me that he thought there was a  strange man aboard the ship.  He said that in his watch he had  been sheltering behind the deckhouse, as there was a rain storm,  when he saw a tall, thin man, who was not like any of the crew,  come up the companionway, and go along the deck forward and  disappear.  He followed cautiously, but when he got to bows found  no one, and the hatchways were all closed.  He was in a panic of  superstitious fear, and I am afraid the panic may spread.  To  allay it, I shall today search the entire ship carefully from stem  to stern.  Later in the day I got together the whole crew, and told them, as  they evidently thought there was some one in the ship, we would  search from stem to stern.  First mate angry, said it was folly,  and to yield to such foolish ideas would demoralise the men, said  he would engage to keep them out of trouble with the handspike.  I  let him take the helm, while the rest began a thorough search, all  keeping abreast, with lanterns.  We left no corner unsearched.  As  there were only the big wooden boxes, there were no odd corners  where a man could hide.  Men much relieved when search over, and  went back to work cheerfully.  First mate scowled, but said  nothing.  22 July.--Rough weather last three days, and all hands busy  with sails, no time to be frightened.  Men seem to have  forgotten their dread.  Mate cheerful again, and all on  good terms.  Praised men for work in bad weather.  Passed  Gibraltar and out through Straits.  All well.  24 July.--There seems some doom over this ship.  Already a hand  short, and entering the Bay of Biscay with wild weather ahead, and  yet last night another man lost, disappeared.  Like the first, he  came off his watch and was not seen again.  Men all in a panic of  fear, sent a round robin, asking to have double watch, as they  fear to be alone.  Mate angry.  Fear there will be some trouble,  as either he or the men will do some violence.  28 July.--Four days in hell, knocking about in a sort of  maelstrom, and the wind a tempest.  No sleep for any one.  Men all worn out.  Hardly know how to set a watch, since no  one fit to go on.  Second mate volunteered to steer and  watch, and let men snatch a few hours sleep.  Wind abating,  seas still terrific, but feel them less, as ship is  steadier.  29 July.--Another tragedy.  Had single watch tonight, as crew too  tired to double.  When morning watch came on deck could find no  one except steersman.  Raised outcry, and all came on deck.  Thorough search, but no one found.  Are now without second mate,  and crew in a panic.  Mate and I agreed to go armed henceforth and  wait for any sign of cause.  30 July.--Last night.  Rejoiced we are nearing England. Weather  fine, all sails set.  Retired worn out, slept soundly, awakened by  mate telling me that both man of watch and steersman missing.  Only self and mate and two hands left to work ship.  1 August.--Two days of fog, and not a sail sighted.  Had hoped  when in the English Channel to be able to signal for help or get  in somewhere.  Not having power to work sails, have to run before  wind.  Dare not lower, as could not raise them again.  We seem to  be drifting to some terrible doom.  Mate now more demoralised than  either of men.  His stronger nature seems to have worked inwardly  against himself.  Men are beyond fear, working stolidly and  patiently, with minds made up to worst.  They are Russian, he  Roumanian.  2 August, midnight.--Woke up from few minutes sleep by hearing a  cry, seemingly outside my port.  Could see nothing in fog.  Rushed  on deck, and ran against mate. Tells me he heard cry and ran, but  no sign of man on watch.  One more gone.  Lord, help us!  Mate  says we must be past Straits of Dover, as in a moment of fog  lifting he saw North Foreland, just as he heard the man cry out.  If so we are now off in the North Sea, and only God can guide us  in the fog, which seems to move with us, and God seems to have  deserted us.  3 August.--At midnight I went to relieve the man at the  wheel and when I got to it found no one there.  The wind  was steady, and as we ran before it there was no yawing.  I  dared not leave it, so shouted for the mate.  After a few  seconds, he rushed up on deck in his flannels.  He looked  wild-eyed and haggard, and I greatly fear his reason has  given way.  He came close to me and whispered hoarsely,  with his mouth to my ear, as though fearing the very air  might hear.  "It is here.  I know it now.  On the watch  last night I saw It, like a man, tall and thin, and ghastly  pale.  It was in the bows, and looking out.  I crept behind  It, and gave it my knife, but the knife went through It,  empty as the air."  And as he spoke he took the knife and  drove it savagely into space.  Then he went on, "But It is  here, and I'll find It.  It is in the hold, perhaps in one  of those boxes.  I'll unscrew them one by one and see.  You  work the helm."  And with a warning look and his finger on  his lip, he went below.  There was springing up a choppy  wind, and I could not leave the helm.  I saw him come out  on deck again with a tool chest and lantern, and go down  the forward hatchway.  He is mad, stark, raving mad, and  it's no use my trying to stop him.  He can't hurt those big  boxes, they are invoiced as clay, and to pull them about is  as harmless a thing as he can do.  So here I stay and mind  the helm, and write these notes.  I can only trust in God  and wait till the fog clears.  Then, if I can't steer to  any harbour with the wind that is, I shall cut down sails,  and lie by, and signal for help . . .  It is nearly all over now.  Just as I was beginning to hope  that the mate would come out calmer, for I heard him  knocking away at something in the hold, and work is good  for him, there came up the hatchway a sudden, startled  scream, which made my blood run cold, and up on the deck he  came as if shot from a gun, a raging madman, with his eyes  rolling and his face convulsed with fear.  "Save me!  Save  me!" he cried, and then looked round on the blanket of fog.  His horror turned to despair, and in a steady voice he  said, "You had better come too, captain, before it is too  late.  He is there!  I know the secret now.  The sea will  save me from Him, and it is all that is left!"  Before I  could say a word, or move forward to seize him, he sprang  on the bulwark and deliberately threw himself into the sea.  I suppose I know the secret too, now.  It was this madman  who had got rid of the men one by one, and now he has  followed them himself.  God help me!  How am I to account  for all these horrors when I get to port?  When I get to  port!  Will that ever be?  4 August.--Still fog, which the sunrise cannot pierce, I  know there is sunrise because I am a sailor, why else I  know not.  I dared not go below, I dared not leave the  helm, so here all night I stayed, and in the dimness of the  night I saw it, Him!  God, forgive me, but the mate was  right to jump overboard.  It was better to die like a man.  To die like a sailor in blue water, no man can object.  But  I am captain, and I must not leave my ship.  But I shall  baffle this fiend or monster, for I shall tie my hands to  the wheel when my strength begins to fail, and along with  them I shall tie that which He, It, dare not touch.  And  then, come good wind or foul, I shall save my soul, and my  honour as a captain.  I am growing weaker, and the night is  coming on.  If He can look me in the face again, I may not  have time to act. . .  If we are wrecked, mayhap this bottle  may be found, and those who find it may understand.  If  not . . . well, then all men shall know that I have been  true to my trust.  God and the Blessed Virgin and the  Saints help a poor ignorant soul trying to do his duty . . .Of course the verdict was an open one.  There is no evidenceto adduce, and whether or not the man himself committed themurders there is now none to say.  The folk here hold almostuniversally that the captain is simply a hero, and he is to begiven a public funeral.  Already it is arranged that his bodyis to be taken with a train of boats up the Esk for a pieceand then brought back to Tate Hill Pier and up the abbey steps,for he is to be buried in the churchyard on the cliff.  Theowners of more than a hundred boats have already given in theirnames as wishing to follow him to the grave.No trace has ever been found of the great dog, at which there ismuch mourning, for, with public opinion in its present state, hewould, I believe, be adopted by the town.  Tomorrow will see thefuneral, and so will end this one more 'mystery of the sea'.MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL8 August.--Lucy was very restless all night, and I too, could notsleep.  The storm was fearful, and as it boomed loudly among thechimney pots, it made me shudder.  When a sharp puff came it seemed tobe like a distant gun.  Strangely enough, Lucy did not wake, but shegot up twice and dressed herself.  Fortunately, each time I awoke intime and managed to undress her without waking her, and got her back tobed.  It is a very strange thing, this sleep-walking, for as soon asher will is thwarted in any physical way, her intention, if there beany, disappears, and she yields herself almost exactly to the routineof her life.Early in the morning we both got up and went down to the harbour to seeif anything had happened in the night.  There were very few peopleabout, and though the sun was bright, and the air clear and fresh, thebig, grim-looking waves, that seemed dark themselves because the foamthat topped them was like snow, forced themselves in through the mouthof the harbour, like a bullying man going through a crowd.  Somehow Ifelt glad that Jonathan was not on the sea last night, but on land.But, oh, is he on land or sea?  Where is he, and how?  I am gettingfearfully anxious about him.  If I only knew what to do, and could doanything!10 August.--The funeral of the poor sea captain today was mosttouching.  Every boat in the harbour seemed to be there, and the coffinwas carried by captains all the way from Tate Hill Pier up to thechurchyard.  Lucy came with me, and we went early to our old seat,whilst the cortege of boats went up the river to the Viaduct and camedown again.  We had a lovely view, and saw the procession nearly allthe way.  The poor fellow was laid to rest near our seat so that westood on it, when the time came and saw everything.Poor Lucy seemed much upset.  She was restless and uneasy all the time,and I cannot but think that her dreaming at night is telling on her.She is quite odd in one thing.  She will not admit to me that there isany cause for restlessness, or if there be, she does not understand itherself.There is an additional cause in that poor Mr. Swales was found deadthis morning on our seat, his neck being broken.  He had evidently, asthe doctor said, fallen back in the seat in some sort of fright, forthere was a look of fear and horror on his face that the men said madethem shudder.  Poor dear old man!Lucy is so sweet and sensitive that she feels influences more acutelythan other people do.  Just now she was quite upset by a little thingwhich I did not much heed, though I am myself very fond of animals.One of the men who came up here often to look for the boats wasfollowed by his dog.  The dog is always with him.  They are both quietpersons, and I never saw the man angry, nor heard the dog bark.  Duringthe service the dog would not come to its master, who was on the seatwith us, but kept a few yards off, barking and howling.  Its masterspoke to it gently, and then harshly, and then angrily.  But it wouldneither come nor cease to make a noise.  It was in a fury, with itseyes savage, and all its hair bristling out like a cat's tail when pussis on the war path.Finally the man too got angry, and jumped down and kicked the dog, andthen took it by the scruff of the neck and half dragged and half threwit on the tombstone on which the seat is fixed.  The moment it touchedthe stone the poor thing began to tremble.  It did not try to get away,but crouched down, quivering and cowering, and was in such a pitiablestate of terror that I tried, though without effect, to comfort it.Lucy was full of pity, too, but she did not attempt to touch the dog,but looked at it in an agonised sort of way.  I greatly fear that sheis of too super sensitive a nature to go through the world withouttrouble.  She will be dreaming of this tonight, I am sure.  The wholeagglomeration of things, the ship steered into port by a dead man, hisattitude, tied to the wheel with a crucifix and beads, the touchingfuneral, the dog, now furious and now in terror, will all affordmaterial for her dreams.I think it will be best for her to go to bed tired out physically, so Ishall take her for a long walk by the cliffs to Robin Hood's Bay andback.  She ought not to have much inclination for sleep-walking then.CHAPTER 8MINA MURRAY'S JOURNALSame day, 11 o'clock P.M.--Oh, but I am tired!  If it were not that Ihad made my diary a duty I should not open it tonight.  We had a lovelywalk.  Lucy, after a while, was in gay spirits, owing, I think, to somedear cows who came nosing towards us in a field close to thelighthouse, and frightened the wits out of us.  I believe we forgoteverything, except of course, personal fear, and it seemed to wipe theslate clean and give us a fresh start.  We had a capital 'severe tea'at Robin Hood's Bay in a sweet little old-fashioned inn, with a bowwindow right over the seaweed-covered rocks of the strand.  I believewe should have shocked the 'New Woman' with our appetites.  Men aremore tolerant, bless them!  Then we walked home with some, or rathermany, stoppages to rest, and with our hearts full of a constant dreadof wild bulls.Lucy was really tired, and we intended to creep off to bed as soon aswe could.  The young curate came in, however, and Mrs. Westenra askedhim to stay for supper.  Lucy and I had both a fight for it with thedusty miller.  I know it was a hard fight on my part, and I am quiteheroic.  I think that some day the bishops must get together and seeabout breeding up a new class of curates, who don't take supper, nomatter how hard they may be pressed to, and who will know when girlsare tired.Lucy is asleep and breathing softly.  She has more colour in her cheeksthan usual, and looks, oh so sweet.  If Mr. Holmwood fell in love withher seeing her only in the drawing room, I wonder what he would say ifhe saw her now.  Some of the 'New Women' writers will some day start anidea that men and women should be allowed to see each other asleepbefore proposing or accepting.  But I suppose the 'New Woman' won'tcondescend in future to accept.  She will do the proposing herself.  Anda nice job she will make of it too!  There's some consolation in that.I am so happy tonight, because dear Lucy seems better.  I reallybelieve she has turned the corner, and that we are over her troubleswith dreaming.  I should be quite happy if I only knew if Jonathan . . .God bless and keep him.11 August.--Diary again.  No sleep now, so I may as well write.  I amtoo agitated to sleep.  We have had such an adventure, such anagonizing experience.  I fell asleep as soon as I had closed my diary.. . .  Suddenly I became broad awake, and sat up, with a horrible senseof fear upon me, and of some feeling of emptiness around me.  The roomwas dark, so I could not see Lucy's bed.  I stole across and felt forher.  The bed was empty.  I lit a match and found that she was not inthe room.  The door was shut, but not locked, as I had left it.  I fearedto wake her mother, who has been more than usually ill lately, so threwon some clothes and got ready to look for her.  As I was leaving theroom it struck me that the clothes she wore might give me some clue toher dreaming intention.  Dressing-gown would mean house, dress outside.Dressing-gown and dress were both in their places.  "Thank God," I saidto myself, "she cannot be far, as she is only in her nightdress."I ran downstairs and looked in the sitting room.  Not there!  Then Ilooked in all the other rooms of the house, with an ever-growing fearchilling my heart.  Finally, I came to the hall door and found it open.It was not wide open, but the catch of the lock had not caught.  Thepeople of the house are careful to lock the door every night, so Ifeared that Lucy must have gone out as she was.  There was no time tothink of what might happen.  A vague over-mastering fear obscured alldetails.I took a big, heavy shawl and ran out.  The clock was striking one as Iwas in the Crescent, and there was not a soul in sight.  I ran alongthe North Terrace, but could see no sign of the white figure which Iexpected.  At the edge of the West Cliff above the pier I looked acrossthe harbour to the East Cliff, in the hope or fear, I don't know which,of seeing Lucy in our favourite seat.There was a bright full moon, with heavy black, driving clouds, whichthrew the whole scene into a fleeting diorama of light and shade asthey sailed across.  For a moment or two I could see nothing, as theshadow of a cloud obscured St. Mary's Church and all around it.  Thenas the cloud passed I could see the ruins of the abbey coming intoview, and as the edge of a narrow band of light as sharp as a sword-cutmoved along, the church and churchyard became gradually visible.Whatever my expectation was, it was not disappointed, for there, on ourfavourite seat, the silver light of the moon struck a half-recliningfigure, snowy white.  The coming of the cloud was too quick for me tosee much, for shadow shut down on light almost immediately, but itseemed to me as though something dark stood behind the seat where thewhite figure shone, and bent over it.  What it was, whether man orbeast, I could not tell.I did not wait to catch another glance, but flew down the steep stepsto the pier and along by the fish-market to the bridge, which was theonly way to reach the East Cliff.  The town seemed as dead, for not asoul did I see.  I rejoiced that it was so, for I wanted no witness ofpoor Lucy's condition.  The time and distance seemed endless, and myknees trembled and my breath came laboured as I toiled up the endlesssteps to the abbey.  I must have gone fast, and yet it seemed to me asif my feet were weighted with lead, and as though every joint in mybody were rusty.When I got almost to the top I could see the seat and the white figure,for I was now close enough to distinguish it even through the spells ofshadow.  There was undoubtedly something, long and black, bending overthe half-reclining white figure.  I called in fright, "Lucy!  Lucy!"and something raised a head, and from where I was I could see a whiteface and red, gleaming eyes.Lucy did not answer, and I ran on to the entrance of the churchyard.As I entered, the church was between me and the seat, and for a minuteor so I lost sight of her.  When I came in view again the cloud hadpassed, and the moonlight struck so brilliantly that I could see Lucyhalf reclining with her head lying over the back of the seat.  She wasquite alone, and there was not a sign of any living thing about.When I bent over her I could see that she was still asleep.  Her lipswere parted, and she was breathing, not softly as usual with her, butin long, heavy gasps, as though striving to get her lungs full at everybreath.  As I came close, she put up her hand in her sleep and pulledthe collar of her nightdress close around her, as though she felt thecold.  I flung the warm shawl over her, and drew the edges tight aroundher neck, for I dreaded lest she should get some deadly chill from thenight air, unclad as she was.  I feared to wake her all at once, so, inorder to have my hands free to help her, I fastened the shawl at herthroat with a big safety pin.  But I must have been clumsy in myanxiety and pinched or pricked her with it, for by-and-by, when herbreathing became quieter, she put her hand to her throat again andmoaned.  When I had her carefully wrapped up I put my shoes on herfeet, and then began very gently to wake her.At first she did not respond, but gradually she became more and moreuneasy in her sleep, moaning and sighing occasionally.  At last, astime was passing fast, and for many other reasons, I wished to get herhome at once, I shook her forcibly, till finally she opened her eyesand awoke.  She did not seem surprised to see me, as, of course, shedid not realize all at once where she was.Lucy always wakes prettily, and even at such a time, when her body musthave been chilled with cold, and her mind somewhat appalled at wakingunclad in a churchyard at night, she did not lose her grace.  Shetrembled a little, and clung to me.  When I told her to come at oncewith me home, she rose without a word, with the obedience of a child.As we passed along, the gravel hurt my feet, and Lucy noticed me wince.She stopped and wanted to insist upon my taking my shoes, but I wouldnot.  However, when we got to the pathway outside the chruchyard, wherethere was a puddle of water, remaining from the storm, I daubed my feetwith mud, using each foot in turn on the other, so that as we wenthome, no one, in case we should meet any one, should notice my barefeet.Fortune favoured us, and we got home without meeting a soul.  Once wesaw a man, who seemed not quite sober, passing along a street in frontof us.  But we hid in a door till he had disappeared up an opening suchas there are here, steep little closes, or 'wynds', as they call themin Scotland.  My heart beat so loud all the time sometimes I thought Ishould faint.  I was filled with anxiety about Lucy, not only for herhealth, lest she should suffer from the exposure, but for herreputation in case the story should get wind.  When we got in, and hadwashed our feet, and had said a prayer of thankfulness together, Itucked her into bed.  Before falling asleep she asked, even implored,me not to say a word to any one, even her mother, about hersleep-walking adventure.I hesitated at first, to promise, but on thinking of the state of hermother's health, and how the knowledge of such a thing would fret her,and think too, of how such a story might become distorted, nay,infallibly would, in case it should leak out, I thought it wiser to doso.  I hope I did right.  I have locked the door, and the key is tiedto my wrist, so perhaps I shall not be again disturbed.  Lucy issleeping soundly.  The reflex of the dawn is high and far over thesea . . .Same day, noon.--All goes well.  Lucy slept till I woke her and seemednot to have even changed her side.  The adventure of the night does notseem to have harmed her, on the contrary, it has benefited her, for shelooks better this morning than she has done for weeks.  I was sorry tonotice that my clumsiness with the safety-pin hurt her.  Indeed, itmight have been serious, for the skin of her throat was pierced.  Imust have pinched up a piece of loose skin and have transfixed it, forthere are two little red points like pin-pricks, and on the band of hernightdress was a drop of blood.  When I apologised and was concernedabout it, she laughed and petted me, and said she did not even feel it.Fortunately it cannot leave a scar, as it is so tiny.Same day, night.--We passed a happy day.  The air was clear, and thesun bright, and there was a cool breeze.  We took our lunch to MulgraveWoods, Mrs. Westenra driving by the road and Lucy and I walking by thecliff-path and joining her at the gate.  I felt a little sad myself,for I could not but feel how absolutely happy it would have been hadJonathan been with me.  But there!  I must only be patient.  In theevening we strolled in the Casino Terrace, and heard some good music bySpohr and Mackenzie, and went to bed early.  Lucy seems more restfulthan she has been for some time, and fell asleep at once.  I shall lockthe door and secure the key the same as before, though I do not expectany trouble tonight.12 August.--My expectations were wrong, for twice during the night Iwas wakened by Lucy trying to get out.  She seemed, even in her sleep,to be a little impatient at finding the door shut, and went back to bedunder a sort of protest.  I woke with the dawn, and heard the birdschirping outside of the window.  Lucy woke, too, and I was glad to see,was even better than on the previous morning.  All her old gaiety ofmanner seemed to have come back, and she came and snuggled in beside meand told me all about Arthur.  I told her how anxious I was aboutJonathan, and then she tried to comfort me.  Well, she succeededsomewhat, for, though sympathy can't alter facts, it can make them morebearable.13 August.--Another quiet day, and to bed with the key on my wrist asbefore.  Again I awoke in the night, and found Lucy sitting up in bed,still asleep, pointing to the window.  I got up quietly, and pullingaside the blind, looked out.  It was brilliant moonlight, and the softeffect of the light over the sea and sky, merged together in one greatsilent mystery, was beautiful beyond words.  Between me and themoonlight flitted a great bat, coming and going in great whirlingcircles.  Once or twice it came quite close, but was, I suppose,frightened at seeing me, and flitted away across the harbour towardsthe abbey.  When I came back from the window Lucy had lain down again,and was sleeping peacefully.  She did not stir again all night.14 August.--On the East Cliff, reading and writing all day.  Lucy seemsto have become as much in love with the spot as I am, and it is hard toget her away from it when it is time to come home for lunch or tea ordinner.  This afternoon she made a funny remark.  We were coming homefor dinner, and had come to the top of the steps up from the West Pierand stopped to look at the view, as we generally do.  The setting sun,low down in the sky, was just dropping behind Kettleness.  The redlight was thrown over on the East Cliff and the old abbey, and seemedto bathe everything in a beautiful rosy glow.  We were silent for awhile, and suddenly Lucy murmured as if to herself . . ."His red eyes again!  They are just the same."  It was such an oddexpression, coming apropos of nothing, that it quite startled me.  Islewed round a little, so as to see Lucy well without seeming to stareat her, and saw that she was in a half dreamy state, with an odd lookon her face that I could not quite make out, so I said nothing, butfollowed her eyes.  She appeared to be looking over at our own seat,whereon was a dark figure seated alone.  I was quite a little startledmyself, for it seemed for an instant as if the stranger had great eyeslike burning flames, but a second look dispelled the illusion.  The redsunlight was shining on the windows of St. Mary's Church behind ourseat, and as the sun dipped there was just sufficient change in therefraction and reflection to make it appear as if the light moved.  Icalled Lucy's attention to the peculiar effect, and she became herselfwith a start, but she looked sad all the same.  It may have been thatshe was thinking of that terrible night up there.  We never refer toit, so I said nothing, and we went home to dinner.  Lucy had a headacheand went early to bed.  I saw her asleep, and went out for a littlestroll myself.I walked along the cliffs to the westward, and was full of sweetsadness, for I was thinking of Jonathan.  When coming home, it was thenbright moonlight, so bright that, though the front of our part of theCrescent was in shadow, everything could be well seen, I threw a glanceup at our window, and saw Lucy's head leaning out.  I opened myhandkerchief and waved it.  She did not notice or make any movementwhatever.  Just then, the moonlight crept round an angle of thebuilding, and the light fell on the window.  There distinctly was Lucywith her head lying up against the side of the window sill and her eyesshut.  She was fast asleep, and by her, seated on the window sill, wassomething that looked like a good-sized bird.  I was afraid she mightget a chill, so I ran upstairs, but as I came into the room she wasmoving back to her bed, fast asleep, and breathing heavily.  She washolding her hand to her throat, as though to protect if from the cold.I did not wake her, but tucked her up warmly.  I have taken care thatthe door is locked and the window securely fastened.She looks so sweet as she sleeps, but she is paler than is her wont,and there is a drawn, haggard look under her eyes which I do not like.I fear she is fretting about something.  I wish I could find out what itis.15 August.--Rose later than usual.  Lucy was languid and tired, andslept on after we had been called.  We had a happy surprise atbreakfast.  Arthur's father is better, and wants the marriage to comeoff soon.  Lucy is full of quiet joy, and her mother is glad and sorryat once.  Later on in the day she told me the cause.  She is grieved tolose Lucy as her very own, but she is rejoiced that she is soon to havesome one to protect her.  Poor dear, sweet lady!  She confided to methat she has got her death warrant.  She has not told Lucy, and made mepromise secrecy.  Her doctor told her that within a few months, atmost, she must die, for her heart is weakening.  At any time, even now,a sudden shock would be almost sure to kill her.  Ah, we were wise tokeep from her the affair of the dreadful night of Lucy's sleep-walking.17 August.--No diary for two whole days.  I have not had the heart towrite.  Some sort of shadowy pall seems to be coming over ourhappiness.  No news from Jonathan, and Lucy seems to be growing weaker,whilst her mother's hours are numbering to a close.  I do notunderstand Lucy's fading away as she is doing.  She eats well andsleeps well, and enjoys the fresh air, but all the time the roses inher cheeks are fading, and she gets weaker and more languid day by day.At night I hear her gasping as if for air.I keep the key of our door always fastened to my wrist at night, butshe gets up and walks about the room, and sits at the open window.Last night I found her leaning out when I woke up, and when I tried towake her I could not.She was in a faint.  When I managed to restore her, she was weak aswater, and cried silently between long, painful struggles for breath.When I asked her how she came to be at the window she shook her headand turned away.I trust her feeling ill may not be from that unlucky prick of thesafety-pin.  I looked at her throat just now as she lay asleep, and thetiny wounds seem not to have healed.  They are still open, and, ifanything, larger than before, and the edges of them are faintly white.They are like little white dots with red centres.  Unless they healwithin a day or two, I shall insist on the doctor seeing about them.LETTER, SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON, SOLICITORS WHITBY,TO MESSRS. CARTER, PATERSON & CO., LONDON.17 August"Dear Sirs,--Herewith please receive invoice of goods sent by GreatNorthern Railway.  Same are to be delivered at Carfax, nearPurfleet, immediately on receipt at goods station King's Cross.  Thehouse is at present empty, but enclosed please find keys, all ofwhich are labelled."You will please deposit the boxes, fifty in number, which form theconsignment, in the partially ruined building forming part of thehouse and marked 'A' on rough diagrams enclosed.  Your agent willeasily recognize the locality, as it is the ancient chapel of themansion.  The goods leave by the train at 9:30 tonight, and will bedue at King's Cross at 4:30 tomorrow afternoon.  As our clientwishes the delivery made as soon as possible, we shall be obliged byyour having teams ready at King's Cross at the time named andforthwith conveying the goods to destination.  In order to obviateany delays possible through any routine requirements as to paymentin your departments, we enclose cheque herewith for ten pounds,receipt of which please acknowledge.  Should the charge be less thanthis amount, you can return balance, if greater, we shall at oncesend cheque for difference on hearing from you.  You are to leavethe keys on coming away in the main hall of the house, where theproprietor may get them on his entering the house by means of hisduplicate key."Pray do not take us as exceeding the bounds of business courtesyin pressing you in all ways to use the utmost expedition."We are, dear Sirs,Faithfully yours,SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON"LETTER, MESSRS.  CARTER, PATERSON & CO., LONDON,TO MESSRS. BILLINGTON & SON, WHITBY.21 August."Dear Sirs,--We beg to acknowledge 10 pounds received and to returncheque of 1 pound, 17s, 9d, amount of overplus, as shown inreceipted account herewith.  Goods are delivered in exact accordancewith instructions, and keys left in parcel in main hall, asdirected."We are, dear Sirs,Yours respectfully,Pro CARTER, PATERSON & CO."MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL.18 August.--I am happy today, and write sitting on the seat in thechurchyard.  Lucy is ever so much better.  Last night she slept wellall night, and did not disturb me once.The roses seem coming back already to her cheeks, though she is stillsadly pale and wan-looking.  If she were in any way anemic I couldunderstand it, but she is not.  She is in gay spirits and full of lifeand cheerfulness.  All the morbid reticence seems to have passed fromher, and she has just reminded me, as if I needed any reminding, ofthat night, and that it was here, on this very seat, I found herasleep.As she told me she tapped playfully with the heel of her boot on thestone slab and said,"My poor little feet didn't make much noise then!  I daresay poor oldMr. Swales would have told me that it was because I didn't want to wakeup Geordie."As she was in such a communicative humour, I asked her if she haddreamed at all that night.Before she answered, that sweet, puckered look came into her forehead,which Arthur, I call him Arthur from her habit, says he loves, andindeed, I don't wonder that he does.  Then she went on in ahalf-dreaming kind of way, as if trying to recall it to herself."I didn't quite dream, but it all seemed to be real.  I only wanted tobe here in this spot.  I don't know why, for I was afraid of something,I don't know what.  I remember, though I suppose I was asleep, passingthrough the streets and over the bridge.  A fish leaped as I went by,and I leaned over to look at it, and I heard a lot of dogs howling.  Thewhole town seemed as if it must be full of dogs all howling at once, asI went up the steps.  Then I had a vague memory of something long anddark with red eyes, just as we saw in the sunset, and something verysweet and very bitter all around me at once.  And then I seemed sinkinginto deep green water, and there was a singing in my ears, as I haveheard there is to drowning men, and then everything seemed passing awayfrom me.  My soul seemed to go out from my body and float about theair.  I seem to remember that once the West Lighthouse was right underme, and then there was a sort of agonizing feeling, as if I were in anearthquake, and I came back and found you shaking my body.  I saw youdo it before I felt you."Then she began to laugh.  It seemed a little uncanny to me, and Ilistened to her breathlessly.  I did not quite like it, and thought itbetter not to keep her mind on the subject, so we drifted on to anothersubject, and Lucy was like her old self again.  When we got home thefresh breeze had braced her up, and her pale cheeks were really morerosy.  Her mother rejoiced when she saw her, and we all spent a veryhappy evening together.19 August.--Joy, joy, joy!  Although not all joy.  At last, news ofJonathan.  The dear fellow has been ill, that is why he did not write.I am not afraid to think it or to say it, now that I know.  Mr. Hawkinssent me on the letter, and wrote himself, oh so kindly.  I am to leavein the morning and go over to Jonathan, and to help to nurse him ifnecessary, and to bring him home.  Mr. Hawkins says it would not be abad thing if we were to be married out there.  I have cried over thegood Sister's letter till I can feel it wet against my bosom, where itlies.  It is of Jonathan, and must be near my heart, for he is in myheart.  My journey is all mapped out, and my luggage ready.  I am onlytaking one change of dress.  Lucy will bring my trunk to London andkeep it till I send for it, for it may be that . . .  I must write nomore.  I must keep it to say to Jonathan, my husband.  The letter thathe has seen and touched must comfort me till we meet.LETTER, SISTER AGATHA, HOSPITAL OF ST. JOSEPH ANDSTE. MARY BUDA-PESTH, TO MISS WILLHELMINA MURRAY12 August,"Dear Madam."I write by desire of Mr. Jonathan Harker, who is himself not strongenough to write, though progressing well, thanks to God and St.Joseph and Ste. Mary.  He has been under our care for nearly sixweeks, suffering from a violent brain fever.  He wishes me to conveyhis love, and to say that by this post I write for him to Mr. PeterHawkins, Exeter, to say, with his dutiful respects, that he is sorryfor his delay, and that all of his work is completed.  He willrequire some few weeks' rest in our sanatorium in the hills, butwill then return.  He wishes me to say that he has not sufficientmoney with him, and that he would like to pay for his staying here,so that others who need shall not be wanting for help."Believe me,"Yours, with sympathyand all blessings.Sister Agatha"P.S.--My patient being asleep, I open this to let you knowsomething more.  He has told me all about you, and that you areshortly to be his wife.  All blessings to you both!  He has had somefearful shock, so says our doctor, and in his delirium his ravingshave been dreadful, of wolves and poison and blood, of ghosts anddemons, and I fear to say of what.  Be careful of him always thatthere may be nothing to excite him of this kind for a long time tocome.  The traces of such an illness as his do not lightly die away.We should have written long ago, but we knew nothing of his friends,and there was nothing on him, nothing that anyone could understand.He came in the train from Klausenburg, and the guard was told by thestation master there that he rushed into the station shouting for aticket for home.  Seeing from his violent demeanour that he wasEnglish, they gave him a ticket for the furthest station on the waythither that the train reached."Be assured that he is well cared for.  He has won all hearts by hissweetness and gentleness.  He is truly getting on well, and I haveno doubt will in a few weeks be all himself.  But be careful of himfor safety's sake.  There are, I pray God and St. Joseph and Ste.Mary, many, many, happy years for you both."DR. SEWARD'S DIARY19 August.--Strange and sudden change in Renfield last night.  Abouteight o'clock he began to get excited and sniff about as a dog doeswhen setting.  The attendant was struck by his manner, and knowing myinterest in him, encouraged him to talk.  He is usually respectful tothe attendant and at times servile, but tonight, the man tells me, hewas quite haughty.  Would not condescend to talk with him at all.All he would say was, "I don't want to talk to you.  You don't countnow.  The master is at hand."The attendant thinks it is some sudden form of religious mania whichhas seized him.  If so, we must look out for squalls, for a strong manwith homicidal and religious mania at once might be dangerous.  Thecombination is a dreadful one.At nine o'clock I visited him myself.  His attitude to me was the sameas that to the attendant.  In his sublime self-feeling the differencebetween myself and the attendant seemed to him as nothing.  It lookslike religious mania, and he will soon think that he himself is God.These infinitesimal distinctions between man and man are too paltry foran Omnipotent Being.  How these madmen give themselves away!  The realGod taketh heed lest a sparrow fall.  But the God created from humanvanity sees no difference between an eagle and a sparrow.  Oh, if menonly knew!For half an hour or more Renfield kept getting excited in greater andgreater degree.  I did not pretend to be watching him, but I keptstrict observation all the same.  All at once that shifty look cameinto his eyes which we always see when a madman has seized an idea, andwith it the shifty movement of the head and back which asylumattendants come to know so well.  He became quite quiet, and went andsat on the edge of his bed resignedly, and looked into space withlack-luster eyes.I thought I would find out if his apathy were real or only assumed, andtried to lead him to talk of his pets, a theme which had never failedto excite his attention.At first he made no reply, but at length said testily, "Bother themall!  I don't care a pin about them.""What?" I said.  "You don't mean to tell me you don't care aboutspiders?"  (Spiders at present are his hobby and the notebook is fillingup with columns of small figures.)To this he answered enigmatically, "The Bride maidens rejoice the eyesthat wait the coming of the bride.  But when the bride draweth nigh,then the maidens shine not to the eyes that are filled."He would not explain himself, but remained obstinately seated on hisbed all the time I remained with him.I am weary tonight and low in spirits.  I cannot but think of Lucy, andhow different things might have been.  If I don't sleep at once,chloral, the modern Morpheus!  I must be careful not to let it growinto a habit.  No, I shall take none tonight!  I have thought of Lucy,and I shall not dishonour her by mixing the two.  If need be, tonightshall be sleepless.Later.--Glad I made the resolution, gladder that I kept to it.  I hadlain tossing about, and had heard the clock strike only twice, when thenight watchman came to me, sent up from the ward, to say that Renfieldhad escaped.  I threw on my clothes and ran down at once.  My patientis too dangerous a person to be roaming about.  Those ideas of hismight work out dangerously with strangers.The attendant was waiting for me.  He said he had seen him not tenminutes before, seemingly asleep in his bed, when he had looked throughthe observation trap in the door.  His attention was called by thesound of the window being wrenched out.  He ran back and saw his feetdisappear through the window, and had at once sent up for me.  He wasonly in his night gear, and cannot be far off.The attendant thought it would be more useful to watch where he shouldgo than to follow him, as he might lose sight of him whilst getting outof the building by the door.  He is a bulky man, and couldn't getthrough the window.I am thin, so, with his aid, I got out, but feet foremost, and as wewere only a few feet above ground landed unhurt.The attendant told me the patient had gone to the left, and had taken astraight line, so I ran as quickly as I could.  As I got through thebelt of trees I saw a white figure scale the high wall which separatesour grounds from those of the deserted house.I ran back at once, told the watchman to get three or four menimmediately and follow me into the grounds of Carfax, in case ourfriend might be dangerous.  I got a ladder myself, and crossing thewall, dropped down on the other side.  I could see Renfield's figurejust disappearing behind the angle of the house, so I ran after him.  Onthe far side of the house I found him pressed close against the oldiron-bound oak door of the chapel.He was talking, apparently to some one, but I was afraid to go nearenough to hear what he was saying, lest I might frighten him, and heshould run off.Chasing an errant swarm of bees is nothing to following a nakedlunatic, when the fit of escaping is upon him!  After a few minutes,however, I could see that he did not take note of anything around him,and so ventured to draw nearer to him, the more so as my men had nowcrossed the wall and were closing him in.  I heard him say . . ."I am here to do your bidding, Master.  I am your slave, and you willreward me, for I shall be faithful.  I have worshipped you long and afaroff.  Now that you are near, I await your commands, and you will notpass me by, will you, dear Master, in your distribution of goodthings?"He is a selfish old beggar anyhow.  He thinks of the loaves and fisheseven when he believes his is in a real Presence.  His manias make astartling combination.  When we closed in on him he fought like atiger.  He is immensely strong, for he was more like a wild beast thana man.I never saw a lunatic in such a paroxysm of rage before, and I hope Ishall not again.  It is a mercy that we have found out his strength andhis danger in good time.  With strength and determination like his, hemight have done wild work before he was caged.He is safe now, at any rate.  Jack Sheppard himself couldn't get freefrom the strait waistcoat that keeps him restrained, and he's chainedto the wall in the padded room.His cries are at times awful, but the silences that follow are moredeadly still, for he means murder in every turn and movement.Just now he spoke coherent words for the first time.  "I shall bepatient, Master.  It is coming, coming, coming!"So I took the hint, and came too.  I was too excited to sleep, but thisdiary has quieted me, and I feel I shall get some sleep tonight.CHAPTER 9LETTER, MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRABuda-Pesth, 24 August."My dearest Lucy,"I know you will be anxious to hear all that has happenedsince we parted at the railway station at Whitby."Well, my dear, I got to Hull all right, and caught the boat toHamburg, and then the train on here.  I feel that I can hardlyrecall anything of the journey, except that I knew I was coming toJonathan, and that as I should have to do some nursing, I had betterget all the sleep I could.  I found my dear one, oh, so thin andpale and weak-looking. All the resolution has gone out of his deareyes, and that quiet dignity which I told you was in his face hasvanished.  He is only a wreck of himself, and he does not rememberanything that has happened to him for a long time past.  At least,he wants me to believe so, and I shall never ask."He has had some terrible shock, and I fear it might tax his poorbrain if he were to try to recall it.  Sister Agatha, who is a goodcreature and a born nurse, tells me that he wanted her to tell mewhat they were, but she would only cross herself, and say she wouldnever tell.  That the ravings of the sick were the secrets of God,and that if a nurse through her vocation should hear them, sheshould respect her trust."She is a sweet, good soul, and the next day, when she saw I wastroubled, she opened up the subject my poor dear raved about, added,'I can tell you this much, my dear.  That it was not about anythingwhich he has done wrong himself, and you, as his wife to be, have nocause to be concerned.  He has not forgotten you or what he owes toyou.  His fear was of great and terrible things, which no mortal cantreat of.'"I do believe the dear soul thought I might be jealous lest my poordear should have fallen in love with any other girl.  The idea of mybeing jealous about Jonathan!  And yet, my dear, let me whisper, Ifelt a thrill of joy through me when I knew that no other woman wasa cause for trouble.  I am now sitting by his bedside, where I cansee his face while he sleeps.  He is waking!"When he woke he asked me for his coat, as he wanted to getsomething from the pocket.  I asked Sister Agatha, and she broughtall his things.  I saw amongst them was his notebook, and wasgoing to ask him to let me look at it, for I knew that I might findsome clue to his trouble, but I suppose he must have seen my wish inmy eyes, for he sent me over to the window, saying he wanted to bequite alone for a moment."Then he called me back, and he said to me very solemnly,'Wilhelmina', I knew then that he was in deadly earnest, for he hasnever called me by that name since he asked me to marry him, 'Youknow, dear, my ideas of the trust between husband and wife.  Thereshould be no secret, no concealment.  I have had a great shock, andwhen I try to think of what it is I feel my head spin round, and Ido not know if it was real of the dreaming of a madman.  You know Ihad brain fever, and that is to be mad.  The secret is here, and Ido not want to know it.  I want to take up my life here, with ourmarriage.'  For, my dear, we had decided to be married as soon asthe formalities are complete.  'Are you willing, Wilhelmina, toshare my ignorance?  Here is the book.  Take it and keep it, read itif you will, but never let me know unless, indeed, some solemn dutyshould come upon me to go back to the bitter hours, asleep or awake,sane or mad, recorded here.'  He fell back exhausted, and I put thebook under his pillow, and kissed him.  I have asked Sister Agathato beg the Superior to let our wedding be this afternoon, and amwaiting her reply . . .""She has come and told me that the Chaplain of the English missionchurch has been sent for.  We are to be married in an hour, or assoon after as Jonathan awakes.""Lucy, the time has come and gone.  I feel very solemn, but very,very happy.  Jonathan woke a little after the hour, and all wasready, and he sat up in bed, propped up with pillows.  He answeredhis 'I will' firmly and strong.  I could hardly speak.  My heart wasso full that even those words seemed to choke me."The dear sisters were so kind.  Please, God, I shall never, neverforget them, nor the grave and sweet responsibilities I have takenupon me.  I must tell you of my wedding present.  When the chaplainand the sisters had left me alone with my husband--oh, Lucy, it isthe first time I have written the words 'my husband'--left me alonewith my husband, I took the book from under his pillow, and wrappedit up in white paper, and tied it with a little bit of pale blueribbon which was round my neck, and sealed it over the knot withsealing wax, and for my seal I used my wedding ring.  Then I kissedit and showed it to my husband, and told him that I would keep itso, and then it would be an outward and visible sign for us all ourlives that we trusted each other, that I would never open it unlessit were for his own dear sake or for the sake of some stern duty.Then he took my hand in his, and oh, Lucy, it was the first time hetook his wife's hand, and said that it was the dearest thing in allthe wide world, and that he would go through all the past again towin it, if need be.  The poor dear meant to have said a part of thepast, but he cannot think of time yet, and I shall not wonder if atfirst he mixes up not only the month, but the year."Well, my dear, what could I say?  I could only tell him that I wasthe happiest woman in all the wide world, and that I had nothing togive him except myself, my life, and my trust, and that with thesewent my love and duty for all the days of my life.  And, my dear,when he kissed me, and drew me to him with his poor weak hands, itwas like a solemn pledge between us."Lucy dear, do you know why I tell you all this?  It is not onlybecause it is all sweet to me, but because you have been, and are,very dear to me.  It was my privilege to be your friend and guidewhen you came from the schoolroom to prepare for the world of life.I want you to see now, and with the eyes of a very happy wife,whither duty has led me, so that in your own married life you toomay be all happy, as I am.  My dear, please Almighty God, your lifemay be all it promises, a long day of sunshine, with no harsh wind,no forgetting duty, no distrust.  I must not wish you no pain, forthat can never be, but I do hope you will be always as happy as I amnow.  Goodbye, my dear.  I shall post this at once, and perhaps,write you very soon again.  I must stop, for Jonathan is waking.  Imust attend my husband!"Your ever-lovingMina Harker."LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA HARKER.Whitby, 30 August."My dearest Mina,"Oceans of love and millions of kisses, and may you soon be in yourown home with your husband.  I wish you were coming home soon enoughto stay with us here.  The strong air would soon restore Jonathan.It has quite restored me.  I have an appetite like a cormorant, amfull of life, and sleep well.  You will be glad to know that I havequite given up walking in my sleep.  I think I have not stirred outof my bed for a week, that is when I once got into it at night.Arthur says I am getting fat.  By the way, I forgot to tell you thatArthur is here.  We have such walks and drives, and rides, androwing, and tennis, and fishing together, and I love him more thanever.  He tells me that he loves me more, but I doubt that, for atfirst he told me that he couldn't love me more than he did then.But this is nonsense.  There he is, calling to me.  So no more justat present from your loving,"Lucy."P.S.--Mother sends her love.  She seems better, poor dear."P.P.S.--We are to be married on 28 September."DR. SEWARDS DIARY20 August.--The case of Renfield grows even more interesting.  He hasnow so far quieted that there are spells of cessation from hispassion.  For the first week after his attack he was perpetuallyviolent.  Then one night, just as the moon rose, he grew quiet, andkept murmuring to himself.  "Now I can wait.  Now I can wait."The attendant came to tell me, so I ran down at once to have a look athim.  He was still in the strait waistcoat and in the padded room, butthe suffused look had gone from his face, and his eyes had somethingof their old pleading.  I might almost say, cringing, softness.  I wassatisfied with his present condition, and directed him to be relieved.The attendants hesitated, but finally carried out my wishes withoutprotest.It was a strange thing that the patient had humour enough to see theirdistrust, for, coming close to me, he said in a whisper, all the whilelooking furtively at them, "They think I could hurt you!  Fancy mehurting you!  The fools!"It was soothing, somehow, to the feelings to find myself disassociatedeven in the mind of this poor madman from the others, but all the sameI do not follow his thought.  Am I to take it that I have anything incommon with him, so that we are, as it were, to stand together.  Orhas he to gain from me some good so stupendous that my well being isneedful to Him?  I must find out later on.  Tonight he will not speak.Even the offer of a kitten or even a full-grown cat will not tempthim.He will only say, "I don't take any stock in cats.  I have more tothink of now, and I can wait.  I can wait."After a while I left him.  The attendant tells me that he was quietuntil just before dawn, and that then he began to get uneasy, and atlength violent, until at last he fell into a paroxysm which exhaustedhim so that he swooned into a sort of coma.. . . Three nights has the same thing happened, violent all day thenquiet from moonrise to sunrise.  I wish I could get some clue to thecause.  It would almost seem as if there was some influence which cameand went.  Happy thought!  We shall tonight play sane wits against madones.  He escaped before without our help.  Tonight he shall escapewith it.  We shall give him a chance, and have the men ready to followin case they are required.23 August.--"The expected always happens."  How well Disraeli knewlife.  Our bird when he found the cage open would not fly, so all oursubtle arrangements were for nought.  At any rate, we have proved onething, that the spells of quietness last a reasonable time.  We shallin future be able to ease his bonds for a few hours each day.  I havegiven orders to the night attendant merely to shut him in the paddedroom, when once he is quiet, until the hour before sunrise.  The poorsoul's body will enjoy the relief even if his mind cannot appreciateit.  Hark!  The unexpected again!  I am called.  The patient has oncemore escaped.Later.--Another night adventure.  Renfield artfully waited until theattendant was entering the room to inspect.  Then he dashed out pasthim and flew down the passage.  I sent word for the attendants tofollow.  Again he went into the grounds of the deserted house, and wefound him in the same place, pressed against the old chapel door.When he saw me he became furious, and had not the attendants seizedhim in time, he would have tried to kill me.  As we were holding him astrange thing happened.  He suddenly redoubled his efforts, and thenas suddenly grew calm.  I looked round instinctively, but could seenothing.  Then I caught the patient's eye and followed it, but couldtrace nothing as it looked into the moonlight sky, except a big bat,which was flapping its silent and ghostly way to the west.  Batsusually wheel about, but this one seemed to go straight on, as if itknew where it was bound for or had some intention of its own.The patient grew calmer every instant, and presently said, "Youneedn't tie me.  I shall go quietly!"  Without trouble, we came backto the house.  I feel there is something ominous in his calm, andshall not forget this night.LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARYHillingham, 24 August.--I must imitate Mina, and keep writing thingsdown.  Then we can have long talks when we do meet.  I wonder when itwill be.  I wish she were with me again, for I feel so unhappy.  Lastnight I seemed to be dreaming again just as I was at Whitby.  Perhapsit is the change of air, or getting home again.  It is all dark andhorrid to me, for I can remember nothing.  But I am full of vaguefear, and I feel so weak and worn out.  When Arthur came to lunch helooked quite grieved when he saw me, and I hadn't the spirit to try tobe cheerful.  I wonder if I could sleep in mother's room tonight.  Ishall make an excuse to try.25 August.--Another bad night.  Mother did not seem to take to myproposal.  She seems not too well herself, and doubtless she fears toworry me.  I tried to keep awake, and succeeded for a while, but whenthe clock struck twelve it waked me from a doze, so I must have beenfalling asleep.  There was a sort of scratching or flapping at thewindow, but I did not mind it, and as I remember no more, I suppose Imust have fallen asleep.  More bad dreams.  I wish I could rememberthem.  This morning I am horribly weak.  My face is ghastly pale, andmy throat pains me.  It must be something wrong with my lungs, for Idon't seem to be getting air enough.  I shall try to cheer up whenArthur comes, or else I know he will be miserable to see me so.LETTER, ARTHUR TO DR. SEWARD"Albemarle Hotel, 31 August"My dear Jack,"I want you to do me a favour.  Lucy is ill, that is she has nospecial disease, but she looks awful, and is getting worse everyday.  I have asked her if there is any cause, I not dare to ask hermother, for to disturb the poor lady's mind about her daughter inher present state of health would be fatal.  Mrs. Westenra hasconfided to me that her doom is spoken, disease of the heart, thoughpoor Lucy does not know it yet.  I am sure that there is somethingpreying on my dear girl's mind.  I am almost distracted when I thinkof her.  To look at her gives me a pang.  I told her I should askyou to see her, and though she demurred at first, I know why, oldfellow, she finally consented.  It will be a painful task for you, Iknow, old friend, but it is for her sake, and I must not hesitate toask, or you to act.  You are to come to lunch at Hillinghamtomorrow, two o'clock, so as not to arouse any suspicion in Mrs.Westenra, and after lunch Lucy will take an opportunity of beingalone with you.  I am filled with anxiety, and want to consult withyou alone as soon as I can after you have seen her.  Do not fail!"Arthur."TELEGRAM, ARTHUR HOLMWOOD TO SEWARD1 September"Am summoned to see my father, who is worse.  Am writing.  Writeme fully by tonight's post to Ring.  Wire me if necessary."LETTER FROM DR. SEWARD TO ARTHUR HOLMWOOD2 September"My dear old fellow,"With regard to Miss Westenra's health I hasten to let you know atonce that in my opinion there is not any functional disturbance orany malady that I know of.  At the same time, I am not by any meanssatisfied with her appearance. She is woefully different from whatshe was when I saw her last.  Of course you must bear in mind that Idid not have full opportunity of examination such as I should wish.Our very friendship makes a little difficulty which not even medicalscience or custom can bridge over.  I had better tell you exactlywhat happened, leaving you to draw, in a measure, your ownconclusions.  I shall then say what I have done and propose doing."I found Miss Westenra in seemingly gay spirits.  Her mother waspresent, and in a few seconds I made up my mind that she was tryingall she knew to mislead her mother and prevent her from beinganxious.  I have no doubt she guesses, if she does not know, whatneed of caution there is."We lunched alone, and as we all exerted ourselves to be cheerful,we got, as some kind of reward for our labours, some realcheerfulness amongst us.  Then Mrs. Westenra went to lie down, andLucy was left with me.  We went into her boudoir, and till we gotthere her gaiety remained, for the servants were coming and going."As soon as the door was closed, however, the mask fell from herface, and she sank down into a chair with a great sigh, and hid hereyes with her hand.  When I saw that her high spirits had failed, Iat once took advantage of her reaction to make a diagnosis."She said to me very sweetly, 'I cannot tell you how I loathetalking about myself.'  I reminded her that a doctor's confidencewas sacred, but that you were grievously anxious about her.  Shecaught on to my meaning at once, and settled that matter in a word.'Tell Arthur everything you choose.  I do not care for myself, butfor him!'  So I am quite free."I could easily see that she was somewhat bloodless, but I could notsee the usual anemic signs, and by the chance, I was able to testthe actual quality of her blood, for in opening a window which wasstiff a cord gave way, and she cut her hand slightly with brokenglass.  It was a slight matter in itself, but it gave me an evidentchance, and I secured a few drops of the blood and have analysedthem."The qualitative analysis give a quite normal condition, and shows,I should infer, in itself a vigorous state of health.  In otherphysical matters I was quite satisfied that there is no need foranxiety, but as there must be a cause somewhere, I have come to theconclusion that it must be something mental."She complains of difficulty breathing satisfactorily at times, andof heavy, lethargic sleep, with dreams that frighten her, butregarding which she can remember nothing.  She says that as a child,she used to walk in her sleep, and that when in Whitby the habitcame back, and that once she walked out in the night and went toEast Cliff, where Miss Murray found her.  But she assures me that oflate the habit has not returned."I am in doubt, and so have done the best thing I know of. I havewritten to my old friend and master, Professor Van Helsing, ofAmsterdam, who knows as much about obscure diseases as any one inthe world.  I have asked him to come over, and as you told me thatall things were to be at your charge, I have mentioned to him whoyou are and your relations to Miss Westenra.  This, my dear fellow,is in obedience to your wishes, for I am only too proud and happy todo anything I can for her."Van Helsing would, I know, do anything for me for a personalreason, so no matter on what ground he comes, we must accept hiswishes.  He is a seemingly arbitrary man, this is because he knowswhat he is talking about better than any one else.  He is aphilosopher and a metaphysician, and one of the most advancedscientists of his day, and he has, I believe, an absolutely openmind.  This, with an iron nerve, a temper of the ice-brook, andindomitable resolution, self-command, and toleration exalted fromvirtues to blessings, and the kindliest and truest heart that beats,these form his equipment for the noble work that he is doing formankind, work both in theory and practice, for his views are as wideas his all-embracing sympathy.  I tell you these facts that you mayknow why I have such confidence in him.  I have asked him to come atonce.  I shall see Miss Westenra tomorrow again.  She is to meet meat the Stores, so that I may not alarm her mother by too early arepetition of my call."Yours always."John SewardLETTER, ABRAHAM VAN HELSING, MD, DPh, D. Lit, ETC, ETC, TO DR. SEWARD2 September."My good Friend,"When I received your letter I am already coming to you.  By goodfortune I can leave just at once, without wrong to any of those whohave trusted me.  Were fortune other, then it were bad for those whohave trusted, for I come to my friend when he call me to aid thosehe holds dear.  Tell your friend that when that time you suck frommy wound so swiftly the poison of the gangrene from that knife thatour other friend, too nervous, let slip, you did more for him whenhe wants my aids and you call for them than all his great fortunecould do.  But it is pleasure added to do for him, your friend, itis to you that I come.  Have near at hand, and please it so arrangethat we may see the young lady not too late on tomorrow, for it islikely that I may have to return here that night.  But if need be Ishall come again in three days, and stay longer if it must.  Tillthen goodbye, my friend John."Van Helsing."LETTER, DR. SEWARD TO HON. ARTHUR HOLMWOOD3 September"My dear Art,"Van Helsing has come and gone.  He came on with me to Hillingham,and found that, by Lucy's discretion, her mother was lunching out,so that we were alone with her."Van Helsing made a very careful examination of the patient.  He isto report to me, and I shall advise you, for of course I was notpresent all the time.  He is, I fear, much concerned, but says hemust think.  When I told him of our friendship and how you trust tome in the matter, he said, 'You must tell him all you think.  Tellhim what I think, if you can guess it, if you will.  Nay, I amnot jesting.  This is no jest, but life and death, perhaps more.'  Iasked what he meant by that, for he was very serious.  This was whenwe had come back to town, and he was having a cup of tea beforestarting on his return to Amsterdam.  He would not give me anyfurther clue.  You must not be angry with me, Art, because his veryreticence means that all his brains are working for her good.  Hewill speak plainly enough when the time comes, be sure.  So I toldhim I would simply write an account of our visit, just as if I weredoing a descriptive special article for THE DAILY TELEGRAPH.  Heseemed not to notice, but remarked that the smuts of London were notquite so bad as they used to be when he was a student here.  I am toget his report tomorrow if he can possibly make it.  In any case Iam to have a letter."Well, as to the visit, Lucy was more cheerful than on the day Ifirst saw her, and certainly looked better.  She had lost somethingof the ghastly look that so upset you, and her breathing was normal.She was very sweet to the Professor (as she always is), and tried tomake him feel at ease, though I could see the poor girl was making ahard struggle for it."I believe Van Helsing saw it, too, for I saw the quick lookunder his bushy brows that I knew of old.  Then he began tochat of all things except ourselves and diseases and withsuch an infinite geniality that I could see poor Lucy'spretense of animation merge into reality.  Then, withoutany seeming change, he brought the conversation gently roundto his visit, and suavely said,"'My dear young miss, I have the so great pleasure because you areso much beloved.  That is much, my dear, even were there that whichI do not see.  They told me you were down in the spirit, and thatyou were of a ghastly pale.  To them I say "Pouf!"'  And he snappedhis fingers at me and went on.  'But you and I shall show them howwrong they are.  How can he,' and he pointed at me with the samelook and gesture as that with which he pointed me out in his class,on, or rather after, a particular occasion which he never fails toremind me of, 'know anything of a young ladies?  He has his madmento play with, and to bring them back to happiness, and to those thatlove them.  It is much to do, and, oh, but there are rewards in thatwe can bestow such happiness.  But the young ladies!  He has no wifenor daughter, and the young do not tell themselves to the young, butto the old, like me, who have known so many sorrows and the causesof them.  So, my dear, we will send him away to smoke the cigarettein the garden, whiles you and I have little talk all to ourselves.'I took the hint, and strolled about, and presently the professorcame to the window and called me in.  He looked grave, but said, 'Ihave made careful examination, but there is no functional cause.With you I agree that there has been much blood lost, it has beenbut is not.  But the conditions of her are in no way anemic.  I haveasked her to send me her maid, that I may ask just one or twoquestions, that so I may not chance to miss nothing.  I know wellwhat she will say.  And yet there is cause.  There is always causefor everything.  I must go back home and think.  You must send methe telegram every day, and if there be cause I shall come again.The disease, for not to be well is a disease, interest me, and thesweet, young dear, she interest me too.  She charm me, and for her,if not for you or disease, I come.'"As I tell you, he would not say a word more, even when we werealone.  And so now, Art, you know all I know.  I shall keep sternwatch.  I trust your poor father is rallying.  It must be a terriblething to you, my dear old fellow, to be placed in such a positionbetween two people who are both so dear to you.  I know your idea ofduty to your father, and you are right to stick to it.  But if needbe, I shall send you word to come at once to Lucy, so do not beover-anxious unless you hear from me."DR. SEWARD'S DIARY4 September.--Zoophagous patient still keeps up our interest in him.He had only one outburst and that was yesterday at an unusual time.Just before the stroke of noon he began to grow restless.  Theattendant knew the symptoms, and at once summoned aid.  Fortunatelythe men came at a run, and were just in time, for at the stroke ofnoon he became so violent that it took all their strength to hold him.In about five minutes, however, he began to get more quiet, andfinally sank into a sort of melancholy, in which state he has remainedup to now.  The attendant tells me that his screams whilst in theparoxysm were really appalling.  I found my hands full when I got in,attending to some of the other patients who were frightened by him.Indeed, I can quite understand the effect, for the sounds disturbedeven me, though I was some distance away.  It is now after the dinnerhour of the asylum, and as yet my patient sits in a corner brooding,with a dull, sullen, woe-begone look in his face, which seems ratherto indicate than to show something directly.  I cannot quiteunderstand it.Later.--Another change in my patient.  At five o'clock I looked in onhim, and found him seemingly as happy and contented as he used to be.He was catching flies and eating them, and was keeping note of hiscapture by making nailmarks on the edge of the door between the ridgesof padding.  When he saw me, he came over and apologized for his badconduct, and asked me in a very humble, cringing way to be led back tohis own room, and to have his notebook again.  I thought it well tohumour him, so he is back in his room with the window open.  He hasthe sugar of his tea spread out on the window sill, and is reapingquite a harvest of flies.  He is not now eating them, but putting theminto a box, as of old, and is already examining the corners of hisroom to find a spider.  I tried to get him to talk about the past fewdays, for any clue to his thoughts would be of immense help to me, buthe would not rise.  For a moment or two he looked very sad, and saidin a sort of far away voice, as though saying it rather to himselfthan to me."All over!  All over!  He has deserted me.  No hope for me now unlessI do it myself!"  Then suddenly turning to me in a resolute way, hesaid, "Doctor, won't you be very good to me and let me have a littlemore sugar?  I think it would be very good for me.""And the flies?" I said."Yes!  The flies like it, too, and I like the flies, therefore I likeit."  And there are people who know so little as to think that madmen donot argue.  I procured him a double supply, and left him as happy aman as, I suppose, any in the world.  I wish I could fathom his mind.Midnight.--Another change in him.  I had been to see Miss Westenra,whom I found much better, and had just returned, and was standing atour own gate looking at the sunset, when once more I heard himyelling.  As his room is on this side of the house, I could hear itbetter than in the morning.  It was a shock to me to turn from thewonderful smoky beauty of a sunset over London, with its lurid lightsand inky shadows and all the marvellous tints that come on foul cloudseven as on foul water, and to realize all the grim sternness of my owncold stone building, with its wealth of breathing misery, and my owndesolate heart to endure it all.  I reached him just as the sun wasgoing down, and from his window saw the red disc sink.  As it sank hebecame less and less frenzied, and just as it dipped he slid from thehands that held him, an inert mass, on the floor.  It is wonderful,however, what intellectual recuperative power lunatics have, forwithin a few minutes he stood up quite calmly and looked around him.  Isignalled to the attendants not to hold him, for I was anxious to seewhat he would do.  He went straight over to the window and brushed outthe crumbs of sugar.  Then he took his fly box, and emptied itoutside, and threw away the box.  Then he shut the window, andcrossing over, sat down on his bed.  All this surprised me, so I askedhim, "Are you going to keep flies any more?""No," said he.  "I am sick of all that rubbish!"  He certainly is awonderfully interesting study.  I wish I could get some glimpse of hismind or of the cause of his sudden passion.  Stop.  There may be aclue after all, if we can find why today his paroxysms came on at highnoon and at sunset.  Can it be that there is a malign influence of thesun at periods which affects certain natures, as at times the moondoes others?  We shall see.TELEGRAM.  SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM"4 September.--Patient still better today."TELEGRAM, SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM"5 September.--Patient greatly improved.  Good appetite, sleepsnaturally, good spirits, colour coming back."TELEGRAM, SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM"6 September.--Terrible change for the worse.  Come at once.Do not lose an hour.  I hold over telegram to Holmwood tillhave seen you."CHAPTER 10LETTER, DR. SEWARD TO HON. ARTHUR HOLMWOOD6 September"My dear Art,"My news today is not so good.  Lucy this morning had gone back abit.  There is, however, one good thing which has arisen from it.Mrs. Westenra was naturally anxious concerning Lucy, and hasconsulted me professionally about her.  I took advantage of theopportunity, and told her that my old master, Van Helsing, the greatspecialist, was coming to stay with me, and that I would put her inhis charge conjointly with myself.  So now we can come and gowithout alarming her unduly, for a shock to her would mean suddendeath, and this, in Lucy's weak condition, might be disastrous toher.  We are hedged in with difficulties, all of us, my poor fellow,but, please God, we shall come through them all right.  If any needI shall write, so that, if you do not hear from me, take it forgranted that I am simply waiting for news, In haste,"Yours ever,"John SewardDR. SEWARD'S DIARY7 September.--The first thing Van Helsing said to me when we met atLiverpool Street was, "Have you said anything to our young friend, tolover of her?""No," I said.  "I waited till I had seen you, as I said in mytelegram.  I wrote him a letter simply telling him that you werecoming, as Miss Westenra was not so well, and that I should let himknow if need be.""Right, my friend," he said.  "Quite right!  Better he not know asyet.  Perhaps he will never know.  I pray so, but if it be needed,then he shall know all.  And, my good friend John, let me caution you.You deal with the madmen.  All men are mad in some way or the other,and inasmuch as you deal discreetly with your madmen, so deal withGod's madmen too, the rest of the world.  You tell not your madmenwhat you do nor why you do it.  You tell them not what you think.  Soyou shall keep knowledge in its place, where it may rest, where it maygather its kind around it and breed.  You and I shall keep as yet whatwe know here, and here."  He touched me on the heart and on theforehead, and then touched himself the same way.  "I have for myselfthoughts at the present.  Later I shall unfold to you.""Why not now?" I asked.  "It may do some good.  We may arrive at somedecision."  He looked at me and said, "My friend John, when the corn isgrown, even before it has ripened, while the milk of its mother earthis in him, and the sunshine has not yet begun to paint him with hisgold, the husbandman he pull the ear and rub him between his roughhands, and blow away the green chaff, and say to you, 'Look!  He'sgood corn, he will make a good crop when the time comes.'"I did not see the application and told him so.  For reply he reachedover and took my ear in his hand and pulled it playfully, as he usedlong ago to do at lectures, and said, "The good husbandman tell you sothen because he knows, but not till then.  But you do not find thegood husbandman dig up his planted corn to see if he grow.  That isfor the children who play at husbandry, and not for those who take itas of the work of their life.  See you now, friend John?  I have sownmy corn, and Nature has her work to do in making it sprout, if hesprout at all, there's some promise, and I wait till the ear begins toswell."  He broke off, for he evidently saw that I understood.  Then hewent on gravely, "You were always a careful student, and your casebook was ever more full than the rest.  And I trust that good habithave not fail.  Remember, my friend, that knowledge is stronger thanmemory, and we should not trust the weaker.  Even if you have not keptthe good practice, let me tell you that this case of our dear miss isone that may be, mind, I say may be, of such interest to us and othersthat all the rest may not make him kick the beam, as your people say.Take then good note of it.  Nothing is too small.  I counsel you, putdown in record even your doubts and surmises.  Hereafter it may be ofinterest to you to see how true you guess.  We learn from failure, notfrom success!"When I described Lucy's symptoms, the same as before, but infinitelymore marked, he looked very grave, but said nothing.  He took with hima bag in which were many instruments and drugs, "the ghastlyparaphernalia of our beneficial trade," as he once called, in one ofhis lectures, the equipment of a professor of the healing craft.When we were shown in, Mrs. Westenra met us.  She was alarmed, but notnearly so much as I expected to find her.  Nature in one of herbeneficient moods has ordained that even death has some antidote toits own terrors.  Here, in a case where any shock may prove fatal,matters are so ordered that, from some cause or other, the things notpersonal, even the terrible change in her daughter to whom she is soattached, do not seem to reach her.  It is something like the way dameNature gathers round a foreign body an envelope of some insensitivetissue which can protect from evil that which it would otherwise harmby contact.  If this be an ordered selfishness, then we should pausebefore we condemn any one for the vice of egoism, for there may bedeeper root for its causes than we have knowledge of.I used my knowledge of this phase of spiritual pathology, and set downa rule that she should not be present with Lucy, or think of herillness more than was absolutely required.  She assented readily, soreadily that I saw again the hand of Nature fighting for life.  VanHelsing and I were shown up to Lucy's room.  If I was shocked when Isaw her yesterday, I was horrified when I saw her today.She was ghastly, chalkily pale.  The red seemed to have gone even fromher lips and gums, and the bones of her face stood out prominently.Her breathing was painful to see or hear.  Van Helsing's face grew setas marble, and his eyebrows converged till they almost touched over hisnose.  Lucy lay motionless, and did not seem to have strength tospeak, so for a while we were all silent.  Then Van Helsing beckonedto me, and we went gently out of the room.  The instant we had closedthe door he stepped quickly along the passage to the next door, whichwas open.  Then he pulled me quickly in with him and closed the door."My god!" he said.  "This is dreadful.  There is not time to be lost.She will die for sheer want of blood to keep the heart's action as itshould be.  There must be a transfusion of blood at once.  Is it youor me?""I am younger and stronger, Professor.  It must be me.""Then get ready at once.  I will bring up my bag.  I am prepared."I went downstairs with him, and as we were going there was a knock atthe hall door.  When we reached the hall, the maid had just opened thedoor, and Arthur was stepping quickly in.  He rushed up to me, sayingin an eager whisper,"Jack, I was so anxious.  I read between the lines of your letter, andhave been in an agony.  The dad was better, so I ran down here to seefor myself.  Is not that gentleman Dr. Van Helsing?  I am so thankfulto you, sir, for coming."When first the Professor's eye had lit upon him, he had been angry athis interruption at such a time, but now, as he took in his stalwartproportions and recognized the strong young manhood which seemed toemanate from him, his eyes gleamed.  Without a pause he said to him ashe held out his hand,"Sir, you have come in time.  You are the lover of our dear miss.  Sheis bad, very, very bad.  Nay, my child, do not go like that."  For hesuddenly grew pale and sat down in a chair almost fainting.  "You areto help her.  You can do more than any that live, and your courage isyour best help.""What can I do?" asked Arthur hoarsely.  "Tell me, and I shall do it.My life is hers, and I would give the last drop of blood in my body forher."The Professor has a strongly humorous side, and I could from oldknowledge detect a trace of its origin in his answer."My young sir, I do not ask so much as that, not the last!""What shall I do?"  There was fire in his eyes, and his open nostrilsquivered with intent.  Van Helsing slapped him on the shoulder."Come!" he said.  "You are a man, and it is a man we want.  You arebetter than me, better than my friend John."  Arthur looked bewildered,and the Professor went on by explaining in a kindly way."Young miss is bad, very bad.  She wants blood, and blood she musthave or die.  My friend John and I have consulted, and we are about toperform what we call transfusion of blood, to transfer from full veinsof one to the empty veins which pine for him.  John was to give hisblood, as he is the more young and strong than me."--Here Arthur tookmy hand and wrung it hard in silence.--"But now you are here, you aremore good than us, old or young, who toil much in the world ofthought.  Our nerves are not so calm and our blood so bright thanyours!"Arthur turned to him and said, "If you only knew how gladly I woulddie for her you would understand . . ."  He stopped with a sort ofchoke in his voice."Good boy!" said Van Helsing.  "In the not-so-far-off you will behappy that you have done all for her you love.  Come now and besilent.  You shall kiss her once before it is done, but then you mustgo, and you must leave at my sign.  Say no word to Madame.  You knowhow it is with her.  There must be no shock, any knowledge of thiswould be one.  Come!"We all went up to Lucy's room.  Arthur by direction remained outside.Lucy turned her head and looked at us, but said nothing.  She was notasleep, but she was simply too weak to make the effort.  Her eyesspoke to us, that was all.Van Helsing took some things from his bag and laid them on a littletable out of sight.  Then he mixed a narcotic, and coming over to thebed, said cheerily, "Now, little miss, here is your medicine.  Drinkit off, like a good child.  See, I lift you so that to swallow iseasy.  Yes."  She had made the effort with success.It astonished me how long the drug took to act.  This, in fact, markedthe extent of her weakness.  The time seemed endless until sleep beganto flicker in her eyelids.  At last, however, the narcotic began tomanifest its potency, and she fell into a deep sleep.  When theProfessor was satisfied, he called Arthur into the room, and bade himstrip off his coat.  Then he added, "You may take that one little kisswhiles I bring over the table.  Friend John, help to me!"  So neitherof us looked whilst he bent over her.Van Helsing, turning to me, said, "He is so young and strong, and ofblood so pure that we need not defibrinate it."Then with swiftness, but with absolute method, Van Helsing performedthe operation.  As the transfusion went on, something like life seemedto come back to poor Lucy's cheeks, and through Arthur's growingpallor the joy of his face seemed absolutely to shine.  After a bit Ibegan to grow anxious, for the loss of blood was telling on Arthur,strong man as he was.  It gave me an idea of what a terrible strainLucy's system must have undergone that what weakened Arthur onlypartially restored her.But the Professor's face was set, and he stood watch in hand, and withhis eyes fixed now on the patient and now on Arthur.  I could hear myown heart beat.  Presently, he said in a soft voice, "Do not stir aninstant.  It is enough.  You attend him.  I will look to her."When all was over, I could see how much Arthur was weakened.  Idressed the wound and took his arm to bring him away, when Van Helsingspoke without turning round, the man seems to have eyes in the back ofhis head, "The brave lover, I think, deserve another kiss, which heshall have presently."  And as he had now finished his operation, headjusted the pillow to the patient's head.  As he did so the narrowblack velvet band which she seems always to wear round her throat,buckled with an old diamond buckle which her lover had given her, wasdragged a little up, and showed a red mark on her throat.Arthur did not notice it, but I could hear the deep hiss of indrawnbreath which is one of Van Helsing's ways of betraying emotion.  Hesaid nothing at the moment, but turned to me, saying, "Now take downour brave young lover, give him of the port wine, and let him lie downa while.  He must then go home and rest, sleep much and eat much, thathe may be recruited of what he has so given to his love.  He must notstay here.  Hold a moment!  I may take it, sir, that you are anxiousof result.  Then bring it with you, that in all ways the operation issuccessful.  You have saved her life this time, and you can go homeand rest easy in mind that all that can be is.  I shall tell her allwhen she is well.  She shall love you none the less for what you havedone.  Goodbye."When Arthur had gone I went back to the room.  Lucy was sleepinggently, but her breathing was stronger.  I could see the counterpanemove as her breast heaved.  By the bedside sat Van Helsing, looking ather intently.  The velvet band again covered the red mark.  I askedthe Professor in a whisper, "What do you make of that mark on herthroat?""What do you make of it?""I have not examined it yet," I answered, and then and there proceededto loose the band.  Just over the external jugular vein there were twopunctures, not large, but not wholesome looking.  There was no sign ofdisease, but the edges were white and worn looking, as if by sometrituration.  It at once occurred to me that that this wound, orwhatever it was, might be the means of that manifest loss of blood.But I abandoned the idea as soon as it formed, for such a thing couldnot be.  The whole bed would have been drenched to a scarlet with theblood which the girl must have lost to leave such a pallor as she hadbefore the transfusion."Well?" said Van Helsing."Well," said I.  "I can make nothing of it."The Professor stood up.  "I must go back to Amsterdam tonight," hesaid "There are books and things there which I want.  You must remainhere all night, and you must not let your sight pass from her.""Shall I have a nurse?" I asked."We are the best nurses, you and I.  You keep watch all night.  Seethat she is well fed, and that nothing disturbs her.  You must notsleep all the night.  Later on we can sleep, you and I.  I shall beback as soon as possible.  And then we may begin.""May begin?" I said.  "What on earth do you mean?""We shall see!" he answered, as he hurried out.  He came back a momentlater and put his head inside the door and said with a warning fingerheld up, "Remember, she is your charge.  If you leave her, and harmbefall, you shall not sleep easy hereafter!"DR. SEWARD'S DIARY--CONTINUED8 September.--I sat up all night with Lucy.  The opiate worked itselfoff towards dusk, and she waked naturally.  She looked a differentbeing from what she had been before the operation.  Her spirits evenwere good, and she was full of a happy vivacity, but I could seeevidences of the absolute prostration which she had undergone.  When Itold Mrs. Westenra that Dr. Van Helsing had directed that I should situp with her, she almost pooh-poohed the idea, pointing out herdaughter's renewed strength and excellent spirits.  I was firm,however, and made preparations for my long vigil.  When her maid hadprepared her for the night I came in, having in the meantime hadsupper, and took a seat by the bedside.She did not in any way make objection, but looked at me gratefullywhenever I caught her eye.  After a long spell she seemed sinking offto sleep, but with an effort seemed to pull herself together and shookit off.  It was apparent that she did not want to sleep, so I tackledthe subject at once."You do not want to sleep?""No.  I am afraid.""Afraid to go to sleep!  Why so?  It is the boon we all crave for.""Ah, not if you were like me, if sleep was to you a presage ofhorror!""A presage of horror!  What on earth do you mean?""I don't know.  Oh, I don't know.  And that is what is so terrible.All this weakness comes to me in sleep, until I dread the verythought.""But, my dear girl, you may sleep tonight.  I am here watching you,and I can promise that nothing will happen.""Ah, I can trust you!" she said.I seized the opportunity, and said, "I promise that if I see anyevidence of bad dreams I will wake you at once.""You will?  Oh, will you really?  How good you are to me.  Then I willsleep!"  And almost at the word she gave a deep sigh of relief, andsank back, asleep.All night long I watched by her.  She never stirred, but slept on andon in a deep, tranquil, life-giving, health-giving sleep.  Her lipswere slightly parted, and her breast rose and fell with the regularityof a pendulum.  There was a smile on her face, and it was evident thatno bad dreams had come to disturb her peace of mind.In the early morning her maid came, and I left her in her care and tookmyself back home, for I was anxious about many things.  I sent a shortwire to Van Helsing and to Arthur, telling them of the excellentresult of the operation.  My own work, with its manifold arrears, tookme all day to clear off.  It was dark when I was able to inquire aboutmy zoophagous patient.  The report was good.  He had been quite quietfor the past day and night.  A telegram came from Van Helsing atAmsterdam whilst I was at dinner, suggesting that I should be atHillingham tonight, as it might be well to be at hand, and statingthat he was leaving by the night mail and would join me early in themorning.9 September.--I was pretty tired and worn out when I got toHillingham.  For two nights I had hardly had a wink of sleep, and mybrain was beginning to feel that numbness which marks cerebralexhaustion.  Lucy was up and in cheerful spirits.  When she shookhands with me she looked sharply in my face and said,"No sitting up tonight for you.  You are worn out.  I am quite wellagain.  Indeed, I am, and if there is to be any sitting up, it is Iwho will sit up with you."I would not argue the point, but went and had my supper.  Lucy camewith me, and, enlivened by her charming presence, I made an excellentmeal, and had a couple of glasses of the more than excellent port.Then Lucy took me upstairs, and showed me a room next her own, where acozy fire was burning."Now," she said.  "You must stay here.  I shall leave this door openand my door too.  You can lie on the sofa for I know that nothingwould induce any of you doctors to go to bed whilst there is a patientabove the horizon.  If I want anything I shall call out, and you cancome to me at once."I could not but acquiesce, for I was dog tired, and could not have satup had I tried.  So, on her renewing her promise to call me if sheshould want anything, I lay on the sofa, and forgot all abouteverything.LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY9 September.--I feel so happy tonight.  I have been so miserably weak,that to be able to think and move about is like feeling sunshine aftera long spell of east wind out of a steel sky.  Somehow Arthur feelsvery, very close to me.  I seem to feel his presence warm about me.  Isuppose it is that sickness and weakness are selfish things and turnour inner eyes and sympathy on ourselves, whilst health and strengthgive love rein, and in thought and feeling he can wander where hewills.  I know where my thoughts are.  If only Arthur knew!  My dear,my dear, your ears must tingle as you sleep, as mine do waking.  Oh,the blissful rest of last night!  How I slept, with that dear, goodDr. Seward watching me.  And tonight I shall not fear to sleep, sincehe is close at hand and within call.  Thank everybody for being sogood to me.  Thank God!  Goodnight Arthur.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY10 September.--I was conscious of the Professor's hand on my head, andstarted awake all in a second.  That is one of the things that welearn in an asylum, at any rate."And how is our patient?""Well, when I left her, or rather when she left me," I answered."Come, let us see," he said.  And together we went into the room.The blind was down, and I went over to raise it gently, whilst VanHelsing stepped, with his soft, cat-like tread, over to the bed.As I raised the blind, and the morning sunlight flooded the room, Iheard the Professor's low hiss of inspiration, and knowing its rarity,a deadly fear shot through my heart.  As I passed over he moved back,and his exclamation of horror, "Gott in Himmel!" needed no enforcementfrom his agonized face.  He raised his hand and pointed to the bed,and his iron face was drawn and ashen white.  I felt my knees begin totremble.There on the bed, seemingly in a swoon, lay poor Lucy, more horriblywhite and wan-looking than ever.  Even the lips were white, and thegums seemed to have shrunken back from the teeth, as we sometimes seein a corpse after a prolonged illness.Van Helsing raised his foot to stamp in anger, but the instinct of hislife and all the long years of habit stood to him, and he put it downagain softly."Quick!" he said.  "Bring the brandy."I flew to the dining room, and returned with the decanter.  He wettedthe poor white lips with it, and together we rubbed palm and wrist andheart.  He felt her heart, and after a few moments of agonizingsuspense said,"It is not too late.  It beats, though but feebly.  All our work isundone.  We must begin again.  There is no young Arthur here now.  Ihave to call on you yourself this time, friend John."  As he spoke, hewas dipping into his bag, and producing the instruments oftransfusion.  I had taken off my coat and rolled up my shirt sleeve.There was no possibility of an opiate just at present, and no need ofone; and so, without a moment's delay, we began the operation.After a time, it did not seem a short time either, for the drainingaway of one's blood, no matter how willingly it be given, is aterrible feeling, Van Helsing held up a warning finger.  "Do notstir," he said.  "But I fear that with growing strength she may wake,and that would make danger, oh, so much danger.  But I shallprecaution take.  I shall give hypodermic injection of morphia."  Heproceeded then, swiftly and deftly, to carry out his intent.The effect on Lucy was not bad, for the faint seemed to merge subtlyinto the narcotic sleep.  It was with a feeling of personal pride thatI could see a faint tinge of colour steal back into the pallid cheeksand lips.  No man knows, till he experiences it, what it is to feelhis own lifeblood drawn away into the veins of the woman he loves.The Professor watched me critically.  "That will do," he said."Already?" I remonstrated.  "You took a great deal more from Art."  Towhich he smiled a sad sort of smile as he replied,"He is her lover, her fiance.  You have work, much work to do for herand for others, and the present will suffice."When we stopped the operation, he attended to Lucy, whilst I applieddigital pressure to my own incision.  I laid down, while I waited hisleisure to attend to me, for I felt faint and a little sick.  By andby he bound up my wound, and sent me downstairs to get a glass of winefor myself.  As I was leaving the room, he came after me, and halfwhispered."Mind, nothing must be said of this.  If our young lover should turnup unexpected, as before, no word to him.  It would at once frightenhim and enjealous him, too.  There must be none.  So!"When I came back he looked at me carefully, and then said, "You arenot much the worse.  Go into the room, and lie on your sofa, and restawhile, then have much breakfast and come here to me."I followed out his orders, for I knew how right and wise they were.  Ihad done my part, and now my next duty was to keep up my strength.  Ifelt very weak, and in the weakness lost something of the amazement atwhat had occurred.  I fell asleep on the sofa, however, wondering overand over again how Lucy had made such a retrograde movement, and howshe could have been drained of so much blood with no sign any where toshow for it.  I think I must have continued my wonder in my dreams,for, sleeping and waking my thoughts always came back to the littlepunctures in her throat and the ragged, exhausted appearance of theiredges, tiny though they were.Lucy slept well into the day, and when she woke she was fairly welland strong, though not nearly so much so as the day before.  When VanHelsing had seen her, he went out for a walk, leaving me in charge,with strict injunctions that I was not to leave her for a moment.  Icould hear his voice in the hall, asking the way to the nearesttelegraph office.Lucy chatted with me freely, and seemed quite unconscious thatanything had happened.  I tried to keep her amused and interested.When her mother came up to see her, she did not seem to notice anychange whatever, but said to me gratefully,"We owe you so much, Dr. Seward, for all you have done, but you reallymust now take care not to overwork yourself.  You are looking paleyourself.  You want a wife to nurse and look after you a bit, that youdo!"  As she spoke, Lucy turned crimson, though it was onlymomentarily, for her poor wasted veins could not stand for long anunwonted drain to the head.  The reaction came in excessive pallor asshe turned imploring eyes on me.  I smiled and nodded, and laid myfinger on my lips.  With a sigh, she sank back amid her pillows.Van Helsing returned in a couple of hours, and presently said to me:"Now you go home, and eat much and drink enough.  Make yourselfstrong.  I stay here tonight, and I shall sit up with little missmyself.  You and I must watch the case, and we must have none other toknow.  I have grave reasons.  No, do not ask me.  Think what you will.Do not fear to think even the most not-improbable.  Goodnight."In the hall two of the maids came to me, and asked if they or eitherof them might not sit up with Miss Lucy.  They implored me to letthem, and when I said it was Dr. Van Helsing's wish that either he orI should sit up, they asked me quite piteously to intercede withthe 'foreign gentleman'.  I was much touched by their kindness.  Perhapsit is because I am weak at present, and perhaps because it was onLucy's account, that their devotion was manifested.  For over and overagain have I seen similar instances of woman's kindness.  I got backhere in time for a late dinner, went my rounds, all well, and set thisdown whilst waiting for sleep.  It is coming.11 September.--This afternoon I went over to Hillingham.  Found VanHelsing in excellent spirits, and Lucy much better.  Shortly after Ihad arrived, a big parcel from abroad came for the Professor.  Heopened it with much impressment, assumed, of course, and showed agreat bundle of white flowers."These are for you, Miss Lucy," he said."For me?  Oh, Dr. Van Helsing!""Yes, my dear, but not for you to play with.  These are medicines."Here Lucy made a wry face.  "Nay, but they are not to take in adecoction or in nauseous form, so you need not snub that so charmingnose, or I shall point out to my friend Arthur what woes he may haveto endure in seeing so much beauty that he so loves so much distort.Aha, my pretty miss, that bring the so nice nose all straight again.This is medicinal, but you do not know how.  I put him in your window,I make pretty wreath, and hang him round your neck, so you sleep well.Oh, yes!  They, like the lotus flower, make your trouble forgotten.It smell so like the waters of Lethe, and of that fountain of youththat the Conquistadores sought for in the Floridas, and find him alltoo late."Whilst he was speaking, Lucy had been examining the flowers andsmelling them.  Now she threw them down saying, with half laughter,and half disgust,"Oh, Professor, I believe you are only putting up a joke on me.  Why,these flowers are only common garlic."To my surprise, Van Helsing rose up and said with all his sternness,his iron jaw set and his bushy eyebrows meeting,"No trifling with me!  I never jest!  There is grim purpose in what Ido, and I warn you that you do not thwart me.  Take care, for the sakeof others if not for your own."  Then seeing poor Lucy scared, as shemight well be, he went on more gently, "Oh, little miss, my dear, donot fear me.  I only do for your good, but there is much virtue to youin those so common flowers.  See, I place them myself in your room.  Imake myself the wreath that you are to wear.  But hush!  No telling toothers that make so inquisitive questions.  We must obey, and silenceis a part of obedience, and obedience is to bring you strong and wellinto loving arms that wait for you.  Now sit still a while.  Come withme, friend John, and you shall help me deck the room with my garlic,which is all the way from Haarlem, where my friend Vanderpool raiseherb in his glass houses all the year.  I had to telegraph yesterday,or they would not have been here."We went into the room, taking the flowers with us.  The Professor'sactions were certainly odd and not to be found in any pharmacopeiathat I ever heard of.  First he fastened up the windows and latchedthem securely.  Next, taking a handful of the flowers, he rubbed themall over the sashes, as though to ensure that every whiff of air thatmight get in would be laden with the garlic smell.  Then with the wisphe rubbed all over the jamb of the door, above, below, and at eachside, and round the fireplace in the same way.  It all seemedgrotesque to me, and presently I said, "Well, Professor, I know youalways have a reason for what you do, but this certainly puzzles me.It is well we have no sceptic here, or he would say that you wereworking some spell to keep out an evil spirit.""Perhaps I am!" he answered quietly as he began to make the wreathwhich Lucy was to wear round her neck.We then waited whilst Lucy made her toilet for the night, and when shewas in bed he came and himself fixed the wreath of garlic round herneck.  The last words he said to her were,"Take care you do not disturb it, and even if the room feel close, donot tonight open the window or the door.""I promise," said Lucy.  "And thank you both a thousand times for allyour kindness to me!  Oh, what have I done to be blessed with suchfriends?"As we left the house in my fly, which was waiting, Van Helsing said,"Tonight I can sleep in peace, and sleep I want, two nights of travel,much reading in the day between, and much anxiety on the day tofollow, and a night to sit up, without to wink.  Tomorrow in themorning early you call for me, and we come together to see our prettymiss, so much more strong for my 'spell' which I have work.  Ho, ho!"He seemed so confident that I, remembering my own confidence twonights before and with the baneful result, felt awe and vague terror.It must have been my weakness that made me hesitate to tell it to myfriend, but I felt it all the more, like unshed tears.CHAPTER 11LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY12 September.--How good they all are to me.  I quite love that dearDr. Van Helsing.  I wonder why he was so anxious about these flowers.He positively frightened me, he was so fierce.  And yet he must havebeen right, for I feel comfort from them already.  Somehow, I do notdread being alone tonight, and I can go to sleep without fear.  Ishall not mind any flapping outside the window.  Oh, the terriblestruggle that I have had against sleep so often of late, the pain ofsleeplessness, or the pain of the fear of sleep, and with such unknownhorrors as it has for me!  How blessed are some people, whose liveshave no fears, no dreads, to whom sleep is a blessing that comesnightly, and brings nothing but sweet dreams.  Well, here I amtonight, hoping for sleep, and lying like Ophelia in the play, with'virgin crants and maiden strewments.'  I never liked garlic before,but tonight it is delightful!  There is peace in its smell.  I feelsleep coming already.  Goodnight, everybody.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY13 September.--Called at the Berkeley and found Van Helsing, as usual,up to time.  The carriage ordered from the hotel was waiting.  TheProfessor took his bag, which he always brings with him now.Let all be put down exactly.  Van Helsing and I arrived at Hillinghamat eight o'clock.  It was a lovely morning.  The bright sunshine andall the fresh feeling of early autumn seemed like the completion ofnature's annual work.  The leaves were turning to all kinds ofbeautiful colours, but had not yet begun to drop from the trees.  Whenwe entered we met Mrs. Westenra coming out of the morning room.  Sheis always an early riser.  She greeted us warmly and said,"You will be glad to know that Lucy is better.  The dear child isstill asleep.  I looked into her room and saw her, but did not go in,lest I should disturb her."  The Professor smiled, and looked quitejubilant.  He rubbed his hands together, and said, "Aha!  I thought Ihad diagnosed the case.  My treatment is working."To which she replied, "You must not take all the credit to yourself,doctor.  Lucy's state this morning is due in part to me.""How do you mean, ma'am?" asked the Professor."Well, I was anxious about the dear child in the night, and went intoher room.  She was sleeping soundly, so soundly that even my comingdid not wake her.  But the room was awfully stuffy.  There were a lotof those horrible, strong-smelling flowers about everywhere, and shehad actually a bunch of them round her neck.  I feared that the heavyodour would be too much for the dear child in her weak state, so I tookthem all away and opened a bit of the window to let in a little freshair.  You will be pleased with her, I am sure."She moved off into her boudoir, where she usually breakfasted early.As she had spoken, I watched the Professor's face, and saw it turnashen gray.  He had been able to retain his self-command whilst thepoor lady was present, for he knew her state and how mischievous ashock would be.  He actually smiled on her as he held open the doorfor her to pass into her room.  But the instant she had disappeared hepulled me, suddenly and forcibly, into the dining room and closed thedoor.Then, for the first time in my life, I saw Van Helsing break down.  Heraised his hands over his head in a sort of mute despair, and thenbeat his palms together in a helpless way.  Finally he sat down on achair, and putting his hands before his face, began to sob, with loud,dry sobs that seemed to come from the very racking of his heart.Then he raised his arms again, as though appealing to the wholeuniverse.  "God!  God!  God!" he said.  "What have we done, what hasthis poor thing done, that we are so sore beset?  Is there fateamongst us still, send down from the pagan world of old, that suchthings must be, and in such way?  This poor mother, all unknowing, andall for the best as she think, does such thing as lose her daughterbody and soul, and we must not tell her, we must not even warn her, orshe die, then both die.  Oh, how we are beset!  How are all the powersof the devils against us!"Suddenly he jumped to his feet.  "Come," he said, "come, we must see andact.  Devils or no devils, or all the devils at once, it matters not.We must fight him all the same."  He went to the hall door for hisbag, and together we went up to Lucy's room.Once again I drew up the blind, whilst Van Helsing went towards thebed.  This time he did not start as he looked on the poor face withthe same awful, waxen pallor as before.  He wore a look of sternsadness and infinite pity."As I expected," he murmured, with that hissing inspiration of hiswhich meant so much.  Without a word he went and locked the door, andthen began to set out on the little table the instruments for yetanother operation of transfusion of blood.  I had long ago recognizedthe necessity, and begun to take off my coat, but he stopped me with awarning hand.  "No!" he said.  "Today you must operate.  I shallprovide.  You are weakened already."  As he spoke he took off his coatand rolled up his shirtsleeve.Again the operation.  Again the narcotic.  Again some return of colourto the ashy cheeks, and the regular breathing of healthy sleep.  Thistime I watched whilst Van Helsing recruited himself and rested.Presently he took an opportunity of telling Mrs. Westenra that shemust not remove anything from Lucy's room without consulting him.That the flowers were of medicinal value, and that the breathing oftheir odour was a part of the system of cure.  Then he took over thecare of the case himself, saying that he would watch this night andthe next, and would send me word when to come.After another hour Lucy waked from her sleep, fresh and bright andseemingly not much the worse for her terrible ordeal.What does it all mean?  I am beginning to wonder if my long habit oflife amongst the insane is beginning to tell upon my own brain.LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY17 September.--Four days and nights of peace.  I am getting so strongagain that I hardly know myself.  It is as if I had passed throughsome long nightmare, and had just awakened to see the beautifulsunshine and feel the fresh air of the morning around me.  I have adim half remembrance of long, anxious times of waiting and fearing,darkness in which there was not even the pain of hope to make presentdistress more poignant.  And then long spells of oblivion, and therising back to life as a diver coming up through a great press ofwater.  Since, however, Dr. Van Helsing has been with me, all this baddreaming seems to have passed away.  The noises that used to frightenme out of my wits, the flapping against the windows, the distantvoices which seemed so close to me, the harsh sounds that came from Iknow not where and commanded me to do I know not what, have allceased.  I go to bed now without any fear of sleep.  I do not even tryto keep awake.  I have grown quite fond of the garlic, and a boxfularrives for me every day from Haarlem.  Tonight Dr. Van Helsing isgoing away, as he has to be for a day in Amsterdam.  But I need not bewatched.  I am well enough to be left alone.Thank God for Mother's sake, and dear Arthur's, and for all ourfriends who have been so kind!  I shall not even feel the change, forlast night Dr. Van Helsing slept in his chair a lot of the time.  Ifound him asleep twice when I awoke.  But I did not fear to go tosleep again, although the boughs or bats or something flapped almostangrily against the window panes.THE PALL MALL GAZETTE 18 September.THE ESCAPED WOLF PERILOUS ADVENTURE OF OUR INTERVIEWERINTERVIEW WITH THE KEEPER IN THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENSAfter many inquiries and almost as many refusals, and perpetuallyusing the words 'PALL MALL GAZETTE' as a sort of talisman, I managedto find the keeper of the section of the Zoological Gardens in whichthe wolf department is included.  Thomas Bilder lives in one of thecottages in the enclosure behind the elephant house, and was justsitting down to his tea when I found him.  Thomas and his wife arehospitable folk, elderly, and without children, and if the specimenI enjoyed of their hospitality be of the average kind, their livesmust be pretty comfortable.  The keeper would not enter on what hecalled business until the supper was over, and we were allsatisfied.  Then when the table was cleared, and he had lit hispipe, he said,"Now, Sir, you can go on and arsk me what you want.  You'll excooseme refoosin' to talk of perfeshunal subjucts afore meals.  I givesthe wolves and the jackals and the hyenas in all our section theirtea afore I begins to arsk them questions.""How do you mean, ask them questions?" I queried, wishful to get himinto a talkative humor."'Ittin' of them over the 'ead with a pole is one way.  Scratchin' oftheir ears in another, when gents as is flush wants a bit of a show-orfto their gals.  I don't so much mind the fust, the 'ittin of thepole part afore I chucks in their dinner, but I waits till they've'ad their sherry and kawffee, so to speak, afore I tries on with theear scratchin'.  Mind you," he added philosophically, "there's adeal of the same nature in us as in them theer animiles. Here's youa-comin' and arskin' of me questions about my business, and I thatgrump-like that only for your bloomin' 'arf-quid I'd 'a' seen youblowed fust 'fore I'd answer.  Not even when you arsked me sarcasticlike if I'd like you to arsk the Superintendent if you might arsk mequestions.  Without offence did I tell yer to go to 'ell?""You did.""An' when you said you'd report me for usin' obscene language thatwas 'ittin' me over the 'ead.  But the 'arf-quid made that allright.  I weren't a-goin' to fight, so I waited for the food, anddid with my 'owl as the wolves and lions and tigers does.  But, lor'love yer 'art, now that the old 'ooman has stuck a chunk of hertea-cake in me, an' rinsed me out with her bloomin' old teapot, and I'velit hup, you may scratch my ears for all you're worth, and won'teven get a growl out of me.  Drive along with your questions.  Iknow what yer a-comin' at, that 'ere escaped wolf.""Exactly.  I want you to give me your view of it.  Just tell me howit happened, and when I know the facts I'll get you to say what youconsider was the cause of it, and how you think the whole affairwill end.""All right, guv'nor.  This 'ere is about the 'ole story.That 'ere wolf what we called Bersicker was one of three grayones that came from Norway to Jamrach's, which we boughtoff him four years ago.  He was a nice well-behaved wolf,that never gave no trouble to talk of.  I'm more surprisedat 'im for wantin' to get out nor any other animile in theplace.  But, there, you can't trust wolves no more nor women.""Don't you mind him, Sir!" broke in Mrs. Tom, with a cheerylaugh.  "'E's got mindin' the animiles so long that blestif he ain't like a old wolf 'isself!  But there ain't no'arm in 'im.""Well, Sir, it was about two hours after feedin' yesterday when Ifirst hear my disturbance.  I was makin' up a litter in the monkeyhouse for a young puma which is ill.  But when I heard the yelpin'and 'owlin' I kem away straight.  There was Bersicker a-tearin' likea mad thing at the bars as if he wanted to get out.  There wasn'tmuch people about that day, and close at hand was only one man, atall, thin chap, with a 'ook nose and a pointed beard, with a fewwhite hairs runnin' through it.  He had a 'ard, cold look and redeyes, and I took a sort of mislike to him, for it seemed as if itwas 'im as they was hirritated at.  He 'ad white kid gloves on 'is'ands, and he pointed out the animiles to me and says, 'Keeper,these wolves seem upset at something.'"'Maybe it's you,' says I, for I did not like the airs as hegive 'isself.  He didn't get angry, as I 'oped he would, buthe smiled a kind of insolent smile, with a mouth full of white,sharp teeth.  'Oh no, they wouldn't like me,' 'e says."'Ow yes, they would,' says I, a-imitatin' of him.  'Theyalways like a bone or two to clean their teeth on about teatime, which you 'as a bagful.'"Well, it was a odd thing, but when the animiles see usa-talkin' they lay down, and when I went over to Bersickerhe let me stroke his ears same as ever.  That there man kemover, and blessed but if he didn't put in his hand and strokethe old wolf's ears too!"'Tyke care,' says I. 'Bersicker is quick.'"'Never mind,' he says.  I'm used to 'em!'"'Are you in the business yourself?' I says, tyking off my'at, for a man what trades in wolves, anceterer, is a goodfriend to keepers."'Nom,' says he, 'not exactly in the business, but I 'ave made petsof several.'  And with that he lifts his 'at as perlite as a lord,and walks away.  Old Bersicker kep' a-lookin' arter 'im till 'e wasout of sight, and then went and lay down in a corner and wouldn'tcome hout the 'ole hevening.  Well, larst night, so soon as the moonwas hup, the wolves here all began a-'owling.  There warn't nothingfor them to 'owl at.  There warn't no one near, except some one thatwas evidently a-callin' a dog somewheres out back of the gardings inthe Park road.  Once or twice I went out to see that all was right,and it was, and then the 'owling stopped.  Just before twelveo'clock I just took a look round afore turnin' in, an', bust me, butwhen I kem opposite to old Bersicker's cage I see the rails brokenand twisted about and the cage empty.  And that's all I know forcerting.""Did any one else see anything?""One of our gard'ners was a-comin' 'ome about that time from a'armony, when he sees a big gray dog comin' out through the garding'edges.  At least, so he says, but I don't give much for it myself,for if he did 'e never said a word about it to his missis when 'egot 'ome, and it was only after the escape of the wolf was madeknown, and we had been up all night a-huntin' of the Park forBersicker, that he remembered seein' anything.  My own belief wasthat the 'armony 'ad got into his 'ead.""Now, Mr. Bilder, can you account in any way for the escapeof the wolf?""Well, Sir," he said, with a suspicious sort of modesty, "I think Ican, but I don't know as 'ow you'd be satisfied with the theory.""Certainly I shall.  If a man like you, who knows the animals fromexperience, can't hazard a good guess at any rate, who is even totry?""Well then, Sir, I accounts for it this way.  It seems to me that'ere wolf escaped--simply because he wanted to get out."From the hearty way that both Thomas and his wife laughed at thejoke I could see that it had done service before, and that the wholeexplanation was simply an elaborate sell.  I couldn't cope inbadinage with the worthy Thomas, but I thought I knew a surer way tohis heart, so I said, "Now, Mr. Bilder, we'll consider that firsthalf-sovereign worked off, and this brother of his is waiting to beclaimed when you've told me what you think will happen.""Right y'are, Sir," he said briskly.  "Ye'll excoose me, Iknow, for a-chaffin' of ye, but the old woman here winked atme, which was as much as telling me to go on.""Well, I never!" said the old lady."My opinion is this: that 'ere wolf is a'idin' of, somewheres.  Thegard'ner wot didn't remember said he was a-gallopin' northwardfaster than a horse could go, but I don't believe him, for, yer see,Sir, wolves don't gallop no more nor dogs does, they not bein' builtthat way.  Wolves is fine things in a storybook, and I dessay whenthey gets in packs and does be chivyin' somethin' that's moreafeared than they is they can make a devil of a noise and chop itup, whatever it is.  But, Lor' bless you, in real life a wolf isonly a low creature, not half so clever or bold as a good dog, andnot half a quarter so much fight in 'im.  This one ain't been usedto fightin' or even to providin' for hisself, and more like he'ssomewhere round the Park a'hidin' an' a'shiverin' of, and if hethinks at all, wonderin' where he is to get his breakfast from.  Ormaybe he's got down some area and is in a coal cellar.  My eye,won't some cook get a rum start when she sees his green eyesa-shinin' at her out of the dark!  If he can't get food he's bound tolook for it, and mayhap he may chance to light on a butcher's shopin time.  If he doesn't, and some nursemaid goes out walkin' or orfwith a soldier, leavin' of the hinfant in the perambulator--well,then I shouldn't be surprised if the census is one babby the less.That's all."I was handing him the half-sovereign, when something came bobbing upagainst the window, and Mr. Bilder's face doubled its natural lengthwith surprise."God bless me!" he said.  "If there ain't old Bersicker come back by'isself!"He went to the door and opened it, a most unnecessary proceeding itseemed to me.  I have always thought that a wild animal never looksso well as when some obstacle of pronounced durability is betweenus.  A personal experience has intensified rather than diminishedthat idea.After all, however, there is nothing like custom, for neither Bildernor his wife thought any more of the wolf than I should of a dog.The animal itself was a peaceful and well-behaved as that father ofall picture-wolves, Red Riding Hood's quondam friend, whilst movingher confidence in masquerade.The whole scene was a unutterable mixture of comedy andpathos.  The wicked wolf that for a half a day hadparalyzed London and set all the children in town shiveringin their shoes, was there in a sort of penitent mood, andwas received and petted like a sort of vulpine prodigalson.  Old Bilder examined him all over with most tendersolicitude, and when he had finished with his penitentsaid,"There, I knew the poor old chap would get into some kind oftrouble.  Didn't I say it all along?  Here's his head allcut and full of broken glass.  'E's been a-gettin' oversome bloomin' wall or other.  It's a shyme that people areallowed to top their walls with broken bottles.  This 'ere'swhat comes of it.  Come along, Bersicker."He took the wolf and locked him up in a cage, with a pieceof meat that satisfied, in quantity at any rate, the elementaryconditions of the fatted calf, and went off to report.I came off too, to report the only exclusive informationthat is given today regarding the strange escapade at theZoo.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY17 September.--I was engaged after dinner in my study posting up mybooks, which, through press of other work and the many visits to Lucy,had fallen sadly into arrear.  Suddenly the door was burst open, andin rushed my patient, with his face distorted with passion.  I wasthunderstruck, for such a thing as a patient getting of his own accordinto the Superintendent's study is almost unknown.Without an instant's notice he made straight at me.  He had a dinnerknife in his hand, and as I saw he was dangerous, I tried to keep thetable between us.  He was too quick and too strong for me, however,for before I could get my balance he had struck at me and cut my leftwrist rather severely.Before he could strike again, however, I got in my right hand and hewas sprawling on his back on the floor.  My wrist bled freely, andquite a little pool trickled on to the carpet.  I saw that my friendwas not intent on further effort, and occupied myself binding up mywrist, keeping a wary eye on the prostrate figure all the time.  Whenthe attendants rushed in, and we turned our attention to him, hisemployment positively sickened me.  He was lying on his belly on thefloor licking up, like a dog, the blood which had fallen from mywounded wrist.  He was easily secured, and to my surprise, went withthe attendants quite placidly, simply repeating over and over again,"The blood is the life!  The blood is the life!"I cannot afford to lose blood just at present.  I have lost too muchof late for my physical good, and then the prolonged strain of Lucy'sillness and its horrible phases is telling on me.  I am over excitedand weary, and I need rest, rest, rest.  Happily Van Helsing has notsummoned me, so I need not forego my sleep.  Tonight I could not welldo without it.TELEGRAM, VAN HELSING, ANTWERP, TO SEWARD, CARFAX(Sent to Carfax, Sussex, as no county given, delivered lateby twenty-two hours.)17 September.--Do not fail to be at Hilllingham tonight.If not watching all the time, frequently visit and see thatflowers are as placed, very important, do not fail.  Shallbe with you as soon as possible after arrival.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY18 September.--Just off train to London.  The arrival of VanHelsing's telegram filled me with dismay.  A whole night lost,and I know by bitter experience what may happen in a night.Of course it is possible that all may be well, but what mayhave happened?  Surely there is some horrible doom hanging over usthat every possible accident should thwart us in all we try to do.I shall take this cylinder with me, and then I can completemy entry on Lucy's phonograph.MEMORANDUM LEFT BY LUCY WESTENRA17 September, Night.--I write this and leave it to be seen,so that no one may by any chance get into trouble throughme.  This is an exact record of what took place tonight.  Ifeel I am dying of weakness, and have barely strength towrite, but it must be done if I die in the doing.I went to bed as usual, taking care that the flowers wereplaced as Dr. Van Helsing directed, and soon fell asleep.I was waked by the flapping at the window, which had begun afterthat sleep-walking on the cliff at Whitby when Mina saved me, andwhich now I know so well.  I was not afraid, but I did wish thatDr. Seward was in the next room, as Dr. Van Helsing said he wouldbe, so that I might have called him.  I tried to sleep, but Icould not.  Then there came to me the old fear of sleep, and Idetermined to keep awake.  Perversely sleep would try to come thenwhen I did not want it.  So, as I feared to be alone, I opened mydoor and called out, "Is there anybody there?"  There was noanswer.  I was afraid to wake mother, and so closed my dooragain.  Then outside in the shrubbery I heard a sort of howl likea dog's, but more fierce and deeper.  I went to the window andlooked out, but could see nothing, except a big bat, which hadevidently been buffeting its wings against the window.  So I wentback to bed again, but determined not to go to sleep.  Presentlythe door opened, and mother looked in.  Seeing by my moving thatI was not asleep, she came in and sat by me.  She said to me evenmore sweetly and softly than her wont,"I was uneasy about you, darling, and came in to see thatyou were all right."I feared she might catch cold sitting there, and asked herto come in and sleep with me, so she came into bed, and laydown beside me.  She did not take off her dressing gown,for she said she would only stay a while and then go backto her own bed.  As she lay there in my arms, and I in hersthe flapping and buffeting came to the window again.  Shewas startled and a little frightened, and cried out, "Whatis that?"I tried to pacify her, and at last succeeded, and she layquiet.  But I could hear her poor dear heart still beatingterribly.  After a while there was the howl again out inthe shrubbery, and shortly after there was a crash at thewindow, and a lot of broken glass was hurled on the floor.The window blind blew back with the wind that rushed in,and in the aperture of the broken panes there was the headof a great, gaunt gray wolf.Mother cried out in a fright, and struggled up into asitting posture, and clutched wildly at anything that wouldhelp her.  Amongst other things, she clutched the wreath offlowers that Dr. Van Helsing insisted on my wearing roundmy neck, and tore it away from me.  For a second or two shesat up, pointing at the wolf, and there was a strange andhorrible gurgling in her throat.  Then she fell over, as ifstruck with lightning, and her head hit my forehead andmade me dizzy for a moment or two.The room and all round seemed to spin round.  I kept my eyesfixed on the window, but the wolf drew his head back, and a wholemyriad of little specks seems to come blowing in through thebroken window, and wheeling and circling round like the pillar ofdust that travellers describe when there is a simoon in thedesert.  I tried to stir, but there was some spell upon me, anddear Mother's poor body, which seemed to grow cold already, forher dear heart had ceased to beat, weighed me down, and Iremembered no more for a while.The time did not seem long, but very, very awful, till Irecovered consciousness again.  Somewhere near, a passingbell was tolling.  The dogs all round the neighbourhood werehowling, and in our shrubbery, seemingly just outside, anightingale was singing.  I was dazed and stupid with painand terror and weakness, but the sound of the nightingaleseemed like the voice of my dead mother come back to comfort me.The sounds seemed to have awakened the maids, too, for I couldhear their bare feet pattering outside my door.  I called tothem, and they came in, and when they saw what had happened, andwhat it was that lay over me on the bed, they screamed out.  Thewind rushed in through the broken window, and the door slammedto.  They lifted off the body of my dear mother, and laid her,covered up with a sheet, on the bed after I had got up.  Theywere all so frightened and nervous that I directed them to go tothe dining room and each have a glass of wine.  The door flewopen for an instant and closed again.  The maids shrieked, andthen went in a body to the dining room, and I laid what flowers Ihad on my dear mother's breast.  When they were there Iremembered what Dr. Van Helsing had told me, but I didn't like toremove them, and besides, I would have some of the servants tosit up with me now.  I was surprised that the maids did not comeback.  I called them, but got no answer, so I went to the diningroom to look for them.My heart sank when I saw what had happened.  They all fourlay helpless on the floor, breathing heavily.  The decanterof sherry was on the table half full, but there was a queer,acrid smell about.  I was suspicious, and examined the decanter.It smelt of laudanum, and looking on the sideboard, I found thatthe bottle which Mother's doctor uses for her--oh! did use--wasempty.  What am I to do? What am I to do?  I am back in the roomwith Mother.  I cannot leave her, and I am alone, save for thesleeping servants, whom some one has drugged.  Alone with thedead! I dare not go out, for I can hear the low howl of the wolfthrough the broken window.The air seems full of specks, floating and circling in thedraught from the window, and the lights burn blue and dim.What am I to do?  God shield me from harm this night!  Ishall hide this paper in my breast, where they shall findit when they come to lay me out.  My dear mother gone!  Itis time that I go too.  Goodbye, dear Arthur, if I shouldnot survive this night.  God keep you, dear, and God helpme!CHAPTER 12DR. SEWARD'S DIARY18 September.--I drove at once to Hillingham and arrived early.Keeping my cab at the gate, I went up the avenue alone.  I knockedgently and rang as quietly as possible, for I feared to disturb Lucyor her mother, and hoped to only bring a servant to the door.  After awhile, finding no response, I knocked and rang again, still noanswer.  I cursed the laziness of the servants that they should lieabed at such an hour, for it was now ten o'clock, and so rang andknocked again, but more impatiently, but still without response.Hitherto I had blamed only the servants, but now a terrible fear beganto assail me.  Was this desolation but another link in the chain ofdoom which seemed drawing tight round us?  Was it indeed a house ofdeath to which I had come, too late?  I know that minutes, evenseconds of delay, might mean hours of danger to Lucy, if she had hadagain one of those frightful relapses, and I went round the house totry if I could find by chance an entry anywhere.I could find no means of ingress.  Every window and door was fastenedand locked, and I returned baffled to the porch.  As I did so, I heardthe rapid pit-pat of a swiftly driven horse's feet.  They stopped atthe gate, and a few seconds later I met Van Helsing running up theavenue.  When he saw me, he gasped out, "Then it was you, and justarrived.  How is she?  Are we too late?  Did you not get my telegram?"I answered as quickly and coherently as I could that I had only gothis telegram early in the morning, and had not a minute in cominghere, and that I could not make any one in the house hear me.  Hepaused and raised his hat as he said solemnly, "Then I fear we are toolate.  God's will be done!"With his usual recuperative energy, he went on, "Come.  If there be noway open to get in, we must make one.  Time is all in all to us now."We went round to the back of the house, where there was a kitchenwindow.  The Professor took a small surgical saw from his case, andhanding it to me, pointed to the iron bars which guarded the window.I attacked them at once and had very soon cut through three of them.Then with a long, thin knife we pushed back the fastening of thesashes and opened the window.  I helped the Professor in, and followedhim.  There was no one in the kitchen or in the servants' rooms, whichwere close at hand.  We tried all the rooms as we went along, and inthe dining room, dimly lit by rays of light through the shutters,found four servant women lying on the floor.  There was no need tothink them dead, for their stertorous breathing and the acrid smell oflaudanum in the room left no doubt as to their condition.Van Helsing and I looked at each other, and as we moved away he said,"We can attend to them later."  Then we ascended to Lucy's room.  For aninstant or two we paused at the door to listen, but there was no soundthat we could hear.  With white faces and trembling hands, we openedthe door gently, and entered the room.How shall I describe what we saw?  On the bed lay two women, Lucy andher mother.  The latter lay farthest in, and she was covered with awhite sheet, the edge of which had been blown back by the droughtthrough the broken window, showing the drawn, white, face, with a lookof terror fixed upon it.  By her side lay Lucy, with face white andstill more drawn.  The flowers which had been round her neck we foundupon her mother's bosom, and her throat was bare, showing the twolittle wounds which we had noticed before, but looking horribly whiteand mangled.  Without a word the Professor bent over the bed, his headalmost touching poor Lucy's breast.  Then he gave a quick turn of hishead, as of one who listens, and leaping to his feet, he cried out tome, "It is not yet too late!  Quick!  Quick!  Bring the brandy!"I flew downstairs and returned with it, taking care to smell and tasteit, lest it, too, were drugged like the decanter of sherry which Ifound on the table.  The maids were still breathing, but morerestlessly, and I fancied that the narcotic was wearing off.  I didnot stay to make sure, but returned to Van Helsing.  He rubbed thebrandy, as on another occasion, on her lips and gums and on her wristsand the palms of her hands.  He said to me, "I can do this, all thatcan be at the present.  You go wake those maids.  Flick them in theface with a wet towel, and flick them hard.  Make them get heat andfire and a warm bath.  This poor soul is nearly as cold as that besideher.  She will need be heated before we can do anything more."I went at once, and found little difficulty in waking three of thewomen.  The fourth was only a young girl, and the drug had evidentlyaffected her more strongly so I lifted her on the sofa and let hersleep.The others were dazed at first, but as remembrance came back to themthey cried and sobbed in a hysterical manner.  I was stern with them,however, and would not let them talk.  I told them that one life wasbad enough to lose, and if they delayed they would sacrifice MissLucy.  So, sobbing and crying they went about their way, half clad asthey were, and prepared fire and water.  Fortunately, the kitchen andboiler fires were still alive, and there was no lack of hot water.  Wegot a bath and carried Lucy out as she was and placed her in it.Whilst we were busy chafing her limbs there was a knock at the halldoor.  One of the maids ran off, hurried on some more clothes, andopened it.  Then she returned and whispered to us that there was agentleman who had come with a message from Mr. Holmwood.  I bade hersimply tell him that he must wait, for we could see no one now.  Shewent away with the message, and, engrossed with our work, I cleanforgot all about him.I never saw in all my experience the Professor work in such deadlyearnest.  I knew, as he knew, that it was a stand-up fight with death,and in a pause told him so.  He answered me in a way that I did notunderstand, but with the sternest look that his face could wear."If that were all, I would stop here where we are now, and let herfade away into peace, for I see no light in life over her horizon."  Hewent on with his work with, if possible, renewed and more frenziedvigour.Presently we both began to be conscious that the heat was beginning tobe of some effect.  Lucy's heart beat a trifle more audibly to thestethoscope, and her lungs had a perceptible movement.  Van Helsing'sface almost beamed, and as we lifted her from the bath and rolled herin a hot sheet to dry her he said to me, "The first gain is ours!Check to the King!"We took Lucy into another room, which had by now been prepared, andlaid her in bed and forced a few drops of brandy down her throat.  Inoticed that Van Helsing tied a soft silk handkerchief round herthroat.  She was still unconscious, and was quite as bad as, if notworse than, we had ever seen her.Van Helsing called in one of the women, and told her to stay with herand not to take her eyes off her till we returned, and then beckonedme out of the room."We must consult as to what is to be done," he said as we descendedthe stairs.  In the hall he opened the dining room door, and we passedin, he closing the door carefully behind him.  The shutters had beenopened, but the blinds were already down, with that obedience to theetiquette of death which the British woman of the lower classes alwaysrigidly observes.  The room was, therefore, dimly dark.  It was,however, light enough for our purposes.  Van Helsing's sternness wassomewhat relieved by a look of perplexity.  He was evidently torturinghis mind about something, so I waited for an instant, and he spoke."What are we to do now?  Where are we to turn for help?  We must haveanother transfusion of blood, and that soon, or that poor girl's lifewon't be worth an hour's purchase.  You are exhausted already.  I amexhausted too.  I fear to trust those women, even if they would havecourage to submit.  What are we to do for some one who will open hisveins for her?""What's the matter with me, anyhow?"The voice came from the sofa across the room, and its tones broughtrelief and joy to my heart, for they were those of Quincey Morris.Van Helsing started angrily at the first sound, but his face softenedand a glad look came into his eyes as I cried out, "Quincey Morris!"and rushed towards him with outstretched hands."What brought you here?" I cried as our hands met."I guess Art is the cause."He handed me a telegram.--'Have not heard from Seward for three days,and am terribly anxious.  Cannot leave.  Father still in samecondition.  Send me word how Lucy is.  Do not delay.--Holmwood.'"I think I came just in the nick of time.  You know you have only totell me what to do."Van Helsing strode forward, and took his hand, looking him straight inthe eyes as he said, "A brave man's blood is the best thing on thisearth when a woman is in trouble.  You're a man and no mistake.  Well,the devil may work against us for all he's worth, but God sends us menwhen we want them."Once again we went through that ghastly operation.  I have not theheart to go through with the details.  Lucy had got a terrible shockand it told on her more than before, for though plenty of blood wentinto her veins, her body did not respond to the treatment as well ason the other occasions.  Her struggle back into life was somethingfrightful to see and hear.  However, the action of both heart andlungs improved, and Van Helsing made a sub-cutaneous injection ofmorphia, as before, and with good effect.  Her faint became a profoundslumber.  The Professor watched whilst I went downstairs with QuinceyMorris, and sent one of the maids to pay off one of the cabmen whowere waiting.I left Quincey lying down after having a glass of wine, and told thecook to get ready a good breakfast.  Then a thought struck me, and Iwent back to the room where Lucy now was.  When I came softly in, Ifound Van Helsing with a sheet or two of note paper in his hand.  Hehad evidently read it, and was thinking it over as he sat with hishand to his brow.  There was a look of grim satisfaction in his face,as of one who has had a doubt solved.  He handed me the paper sayingonly, "It dropped from Lucy's breast when we carried her to the bath."When I had read it, I stood looking at the Professor, and after apause asked him, "In God's name, what does it all mean?  Was she, oris she, mad, or what sort of horrible danger is it?"  I was sobewildered that I did not know what to say more.  Van Helsing put outhis hand and took the paper, saying,"Do not trouble about it now.  Forget it for the present.  You shallknow and understand it all in good time, but it will be later.  Andnow what is it that you came to me to say?"  This brought me back tofact, and I was all myself again."I came to speak about the certificate of death.  If we do not actproperly and wisely, there may be an inquest, and that paper wouldhave to be produced.  I am in hopes that we need have no inquest, forif we had it would surely kill poor Lucy, if nothing else did.  Iknow, and you know, and the other doctor who attended her knows, thatMrs. Westenra had disease of the heart, and we can certify that shedied of it.  Let us fill up the certificate at once, and I shall takeit myself to the registrar and go on to the undertaker.""Good, oh my friend John!  Well thought of!  Truly Miss Lucy, if shebe sad in the foes that beset her, is at least happy in the friendsthat love her.  One, two, three, all open their veins for her, besidesone old man.  Ah, yes, I know, friend John.  I am not blind!  I loveyou all the more for it!  Now go."In the hall I met Quincey Morris, with a telegram for Arthur tellinghim that Mrs. Westenra was dead, that Lucy also had been ill, but wasnow going on better, and that Van Helsing and I were with her.  I toldhim where I was going, and he hurried me out, but as I was going said,"When you come back, Jack, may I have two words with you all toourselves?"  I nodded in reply and went out.  I found no difficultyabout the registration, and arranged with the local undertaker to comeup in the evening to measure for the coffin and to make arrangements.When I got back Quincey was waiting for me.  I told him I would seehim as soon as I knew about Lucy, and went up to her room.  She wasstill sleeping, and the Professor seemingly had not moved from hisseat at her side.  From his putting his finger to his lips, I gatheredthat he expected her to wake before long and was afraid offore-stalling nature.  So I went down to Quincey and took him into thebreakfast room, where the blinds were not drawn down, and which was alittle more cheerful, or rather less cheerless, than the other rooms.When we were alone, he said to me, "Jack Seward, I don't want to shovemyself in anywhere where I've no right to be, but this is no ordinarycase.  You know I loved that girl and wanted to marry her, butalthough that's all past and gone, I can't help feeling anxious abouther all the same.  What is it that's wrong with her?  The Dutchman,and a fine old fellow he is, I can see that, said that time you twocame into the room, that you must have another transfusion of blood,and that both you and he were exhausted.  Now I know well that youmedical men speak in camera, and that a man must not expect to knowwhat they consult about in private.  But this is no common matter, andwhatever it is, I have done my part.  Is not that so?""That's so," I said, and he went on."I take it that both you and Van Helsing had done already what I didtoday.  Is not that so?""That's so.""And I guess Art was in it too.  When I saw him four days ago down athis own place he looked queer.  I have not seen anything pulled downso quick since I was on the Pampas and had a mare that I was fond ofgo to grass all in a night.  One of those big bats that they callvampires had got at her in the night, and what with his gorge and thevein left open, there wasn't enough blood in her to let her stand up,and I had to put a bullet through her as she lay.  Jack, if you maytell me without betraying confidence, Arthur was the first, is notthat so?"As he spoke the poor fellow looked terribly anxious.  He was in atorture of suspense regarding the woman he loved, and his utterignorance of the terrible mystery which seemed to surround herintensified his pain.  His very heart was bleeding, and it took allthe manhood of him, and there was a royal lot of it, too, to keep himfrom breaking down.  I paused before answering, for I felt that I mustnot betray anything which the Professor wished kept secret, butalready he knew so much, and guessed so much, that there could be noreason for not answering, so I answered in the same phrase."That's so.""And how long has this been going on?""About ten days.""Ten days!  Then I guess, Jack Seward, that that poor pretty creaturethat we all love has had put into her veins within that time the bloodof four strong men.  Man alive, her whole body wouldn't hold it."  Thencoming close to me, he spoke in a fierce half-whisper.  "What took itout?"I shook my head.  "That," I said, "is the crux.  Van Helsing is simplyfrantic about it, and I am at my wits' end.  I can't even hazard aguess.  There has been a series of little circumstances which havethrown out all our calculations as to Lucy being properly watched.But these shall not occur again.  Here we stay until all be well, orill."Quincey held out his hand.  "Count me in," he said.  "You and theDutchman will tell me what to do, and I'll do it."When she woke late in the afternoon, Lucy's first movement was to feelin her breast, and to my surprise, produced the paper which VanHelsing had given me to read.  The careful Professor had replaced itwhere it had come from, lest on waking she should be alarmed.  Hereyes then lit on Van Helsing and on me too, and gladdened.  Then shelooked round the room, and seeing where she was, shuddered.  She gavea loud cry, and put her poor thin hands before her pale face.We both understood what was meant, that she had realized to the fullher mother's death.  So we tried what we could to comfort her.Doubtless sympathy eased her somewhat, but she was very low in thoughtand spirit, and wept silently and weakly for a long time.  We told herthat either or both of us would now remain with her all the time, andthat seemed to comfort her.  Towards dusk she fell into a doze.  Herea very odd thing occurred.  Whilst still asleep she took the paperfrom her breast and tore it in two.  Van Helsing stepped over and tookthe pieces from her.  All the same, however, she went on with theaction of tearing, as though the material were still in her hands.Finally she lifted her hands and opened them as though scattering thefragments.  Van Helsing seemed surprised, and his brows gathered as ifin thought, but he said nothing.19 September.--All last night she slept fitfully, being always afraidto sleep, and something weaker when she woke from it.  The Professorand I took in turns to watch, and we never left her for a momentunattended.  Quincey Morris said nothing about his intention, but Iknew that all night long he patrolled round and round the house.When the day came, its searching light showed the ravages in poorLucy's strength.  She was hardly able to turn her head, and the littlenourishment which she could take seemed to do her no good.  At timesshe slept, and both Van Helsing and I noticed the difference in her,between sleeping and waking.  Whilst asleep she looked stronger,although more haggard, and her breathing was softer.  Her open mouthshowed the pale gums drawn back from the teeth, which lookedpositively longer and sharper than usual.  When she woke the softnessof her eyes evidently changed the expression, for she looked her ownself, although a dying one.  In the afternoon she asked for Arthur,and we telegraphed for him.  Quincey went off to meet him at thestation.When he arrived it was nearly six o'clock, and the sun was settingfull and warm, and the red light streamed in through the window andgave more colour to the pale cheeks.  When he saw her, Arthur wassimply choking with emotion, and none of us could speak.  In the hoursthat had passed, the fits of sleep, or the comatose condition thatpassed for it, had grown more frequent, so that the pauses whenconversation was possible were shortened.  Arthur's presence, however,seemed to act as a stimulant.  She rallied a little, and spoke to himmore brightly than she had done since we arrived.  He too pulledhimself together, and spoke as cheerily as he could, so that the bestwas made of everything.It is now nearly one o'clock, and he and Van Helsing are sitting withher.  I am to relieve them in a quarter of an hour, and I am enteringthis on Lucy's phonograph.  Until six o'clock they are to try to rest.I fear that tomorrow will end our watching, for the shock has been toogreat.  The poor child cannot rally.  God help us all.LETTER MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA(Unopened by her)17 SeptemberMy dearest Lucy,"It seems an age since I heard from you, or indeed since Iwrote.  You will pardon me, I know, for all my faults whenyou have read all my budget of news.  Well, I got my husband backall right.  When we arrived at Exeter there was a carriagewaiting for us, and in it, though he had an attack of gout, Mr.Hawkins.  He took us to his house, where there were rooms for usall nice and comfortable, and we dined together.  After dinnerMr. Hawkins said,"'My dears, I want to drink your health and prosperity, andmay every blessing attend you both.  I know you both fromchildren, and have, with love and pride, seen you grow up.Now I want you to make your home here with me.  I have leftto me neither chick nor child.  All are gone, and in mywill I have left you everything.'  I cried, Lucy dear, asJonathan and the old man clasped hands.  Our evening was avery, very happy one."So here we are, installed in this beautiful old house, andfrom both my bedroom and the drawing room I can see thegreat elms of the cathedral close, with their great blackstems standing out against the old yellow stone of the cathedral,and I can hear the rooks overhead cawing and cawing andchattering and chattering and gossiping all day, after the mannerof rooks--and humans.  I am busy, I need not tell you, arrangingthings and housekeeping.  Jonathan and Mr. Hawkins are busy allday, for now that Jonathan is a partner, Mr. Hawkins wants totell him all about the clients."How is your dear mother getting on?  I wish I could run upto town for a day or two to see you, dear, but I dare notgo yet, with so much on my shoulders, and Jonathan wantslooking after still.  He is beginning to put some flesh onhis bones again, but he was terribly weakened by the longillness.  Even now he sometimes starts out of his sleep ina sudden way and awakes all trembling until I can coax himback to his usual placidity.  However, thank God, theseoccasions grow less frequent as the days go on, and theywill in time pass away altogether, I trust.  And now I havetold you my news, let me ask yours.  When are you to bemarried, and where, and who is to perform the ceremony, andwhat are you to wear, and is it to be a public or privatewedding?  Tell me all about it, dear, tell me all abouteverything, for there is nothing which interests you whichwill not be dear to me.  Jonathan asks me to send his 'respectfulduty', but I do not think that is good enough from the juniorpartner of the important firm Hawkins & Harker.  And so, as youlove me, and he loves me, and I love you with all the moods andtenses of the verb, I send you simply his 'love' instead.Goodbye, my dearest Lucy, and blessings on you."Yours,"Mina Harker"REPORT FROM PATRICK HENNESSEY, MD, MRCSLK, QCPI, ETC, ETC,TO JOHN SEWARD, MD20 SeptemberMy dear Sir:"In accordance with your wishes, I enclose report of theconditions of everything left in my charge.  With regard topatient, Renfield, there is more to say.  He has had anotheroutbreak, which might have had a dreadful ending, but which, asit fortunately happened, was unattended with any unhappy results.This afternoon a carrier's cart with two men made a call at theempty house whose grounds abut on ours, the house to which, youwill remember, the patient twice ran away.  The men stopped atour gate to ask the porter their way, as they were strangers."I was myself looking out of the study window, having asmoke after dinner, and saw one of them come up to thehouse.  As he passed the window of Renfield's room, thepatient began to rate him from within, and called him allthe foul names he could lay his tongue to.  The man, whoseemed a decent fellow enough, contented himself by tellinghim to 'shut up for a foul-mouthed beggar', whereon our manaccused him of robbing him and wanting to murder him andsaid that he would hinder him if he were to swing for it.I opened the window and signed to the man not to notice, sohe contented himself after looking the place over and making uphis mind as to what kind of place he had got to by saying, 'Lor'bless yer, sir, I wouldn't mind what was said to me in a bloomin'madhouse.  I pity ye and the guv'nor for havin' to live in thehouse with a wild beast like that.'"Then he asked his way civilly enough, and I told him wherethe gate of the empty house was.  He went away followed bythreats and curses and revilings from our man.  I went downto see if I could make out any cause for his anger, sincehe is usually such a well-behaved man, and except his violentfits nothing of the kind had ever occurred.  I found him, to myastonishment, quite composed and most genial in his manner.  Itried to get him to talk of the incident, but he blandly asked mequestions as to what I meant, and led me to believe that he wascompletely oblivious of the affair.  It was, I am sorry to say,however, only another instance of his cunning, for within half anhour I heard of him again.  This time he had broken out throughthe window of his room, and was running down the avenue.  Icalled to the attendants to follow me, and ran after him, for Ifeared he was intent on some mischief.  My fear was justifiedwhen I saw the same cart which had passed before coming down theroad, having on it some great wooden boxes.  The men were wipingtheir foreheads, and were flushed in the face, as if with violentexercise.  Before I could get up to him, the patient rushed atthem, and pulling one of them off the cart, began to knock hishead against the ground.  If I had not seized him just at themoment, I believe he would have killed the man there and then.The other fellow jumped down and struck him over the head withthe butt end of his heavy whip.  It was a horrible blow, but hedid not seem to mind it, but seized him also, and struggled withthe three of us, pulling us to and fro as if we were kittens.You know I am no lightweight, and the others were both burly men.At first he was silent in his fighting, but as we began to masterhim, and the attendants were putting a strait waistcoat on him,he began to shout, 'I'll frustrate them! They shan't rob me!They shan't murder me by inches!  I'll fight for my Lord andMaster!' and all sorts of similar incoherent ravings.  It waswith very considerable difficulty that they got him back to thehouse and put him in the padded room.  One of the attendants,Hardy, had a finger broken.  However, I set it all right, and heis going on well."The two carriers were at first loud in their threats ofactions for damages, and promised to rain all the penaltiesof the law on us.  Their threats were, however, mingledwith some sort of indirect apology for the defeat of thetwo of them by a feeble madman.  They said that if it hadnot been for the way their strength had been spent in carryingand raising the heavy boxes to the cart they would have madeshort work of him.  They gave as another reason for their defeatthe extraordinary state of drouth to which they had been reducedby the dusty nature of their occupation and the reprehensibledistance from the scene of their labors of any place of publicentertainment.  I quite understood their drift, and after a stiffglass of strong grog, or rather more of the same, and with each asovereign in hand, they made light of the attack, and swore thatthey would encounter a worse madman any day for the pleasure ofmeeting so 'bloomin' good a bloke' as your correspondent.  I tooktheir names and addresses, in case they might be needed.  Theyare as follows:  Jack Smollet, of Dudding's Rents, King George'sRoad, Great Walworth, and Thomas Snelling, Peter Farley's Row,Guide Court, Bethnal Green. They are both in the employment ofHarris & Sons, Moving and Shipment Company, Orange Master's Yard,Soho."I shall report to you any matter of interest occurring here, andshall wire you at once if there is anything of importance."Believe me, dear Sir,"Yours faithfully,"Patrick Hennessey."LETTER, MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA (Unopened by her)18 September"My dearest Lucy,"Such a sad blow has befallen us.  Mr. Hawkins has died verysuddenly.  Some may not think it so sad for us, but we hadboth come to so love him that it really seems as though wehad lost a father.  I never knew either father or mother,so that the dear old man's death is a real blow to me. Jonathanis greatly distressed.  It is not only that he feels sorrow, deepsorrow, for the dear, good man who has befriended him all hislife, and now at the end has treated him like his own son andleft him a fortune which to people of our modest bringing up iswealth beyond the dream of avarice, but Jonathan feels it onanother account.  He says the amount of responsibility which itputs upon him makes him nervous.  He begins to doubt himself.  Itry to cheer him up, and my belief in him helps him to have abelief in himself.  But it is here that the grave shock that heexperienced tells upon him the most.  Oh, it is too hard that asweet, simple, noble, strong nature such as his, a nature whichenabled him by our dear, good friend's aid to rise from clerk tomaster in a few years, should be so injured that the very essenceof its strength is gone.  Forgive me, dear, if I worry you with mytroubles in the midst of your own happiness, but Lucy dear, Imust tell someone, for the strain of keeping up a brave andcheerful appearance to Jonathan tries me, and I have no one herethat I can confide in.  I dread coming up to London, as we mustdo that day after tomorrow, for poor Mr. Hawkins left in his willthat he was to be buried in the grave with his father.  As thereare no relations at all, Jonathan will have to be chief mourner.I shall try to run over to see you, dearest, if only for a fewminutes.  Forgive me for troubling you.  With all blessings,"Your loving"Mina Harker"DR. SEWARD'S DIARY20 September.--Only resolution and habit can let me make an entrytonight.  I am too miserable, too low spirited, too sick of the worldand all in it, including life itself, that I would not care if I heardthis moment the flapping of the wings of the angel of death.  And hehas been flapping those grim wings to some purpose of late, Lucy'smother and Arthur's father, and now . . . Let me get on with my work.I duly relieved Van Helsing in his watch over Lucy.  We wanted Arthurto go to rest also, but he refused at first.  It was only when I toldhim that we should want him to help us during the day, and that wemust not all break down for want of rest, lest Lucy should suffer,that he agreed to go.Van Helsing was very kind to him.  "Come, my child," he said.  "Comewith me.  You are sick and weak, and have had much sorrow and muchmental pain, as well as that tax on your strength that we know of.You must not be alone, for to be alone is to be full of fears andalarms.  Come to the drawing room, where there is a big fire, andthere are two sofas.  You shall lie on one, and I on the other, andour sympathy will be comfort to each other, even though we do notspeak, and even if we sleep."Arthur went off with him, casting back a longing look on Lucy's face,which lay in her pillow, almost whiter than the lawn.  She lay quitestill, and I looked around the room to see that all was as it shouldbe.  I could see that the Professor had carried out in this room, asin the other, his purpose of using the garlic.  The whole of thewindow sashes reeked with it, and round Lucy's neck, over the silkhandkerchief which Van Helsing made her keep on, was a rough chapletof the same odorous flowers.Lucy was breathing somewhat stertorously, and her face was at itsworst, for the open mouth showed the pale gums.  Her teeth, in thedim, uncertain light, seemed longer and sharper than they had been inthe morning.  In particular, by some trick of the light, the canineteeth looked longer and sharper than the rest.I sat down beside her, and presently she moved uneasily.  At the samemoment there came a sort of dull flapping or buffeting at the window.I went over to it softly, and peeped out by the corner of the blind.There was a full moonlight, and I could see that the noise was made bya great bat, which wheeled around, doubtless attracted by the light,although so dim, and every now and again struck the window with itswings.  When I came back to my seat, I found that Lucy had movedslightly, and had torn away the garlic flowers from her throat.  Ireplaced them as well as I could, and sat watching her.Presently she woke, and I gave her food, as Van Helsing hadprescribed.  She took but a little, and that languidly.  There did notseem to be with her now the unconscious struggle for life and strengththat had hitherto so marked her illness.  It struck me as curious thatthe moment she became conscious she pressed the garlic flowers closeto her.  It was certainly odd that whenever she got into thatlethargic state, with the stertorous breathing, she put the flowersfrom her, but that when she waked she clutched them close. There wasno possibility of making any mistake about this, for in the long hoursthat followed, she had many spells of sleeping and waking and repeatedboth actions many times.At six o'clock Van Helsing came to relieve me.  Arthur had then falleninto a doze, and he mercifully let him sleep on.  When he saw Lucy'sface I could hear the hissing indraw of breath, and he said to me in asharp whisper.  "Draw up the blind.  I want light!"  Then he bent down,and, with his face almost touching Lucy's, examined her carefully.  Heremoved the flowers and lifted the silk handkerchief from her throat.As he did so he started back and I could hear his ejaculation, "MeinGott!" as it was smothered in his throat.  I bent over and looked,too, and as I noticed some queer chill came over me.  The wounds onthe throat had absolutely disappeared.For fully five minutes Van Helsing stood looking at her, with his faceat its sternest.  Then he turned to me and said calmly, "She isdying.  It will not be long now.  It will be much difference, mark me,whether she dies conscious or in her sleep.  Wake that poor boy, andlet him come and see the last.  He trusts us, and we have promisedhim."I went to the dining room and waked him.  He was dazed for a moment,but when he saw the sunlight streaming in through the edges of theshutters he thought he was late, and expressed his fear.  I assuredhim that Lucy was still asleep, but told him as gently as I could thatboth Van Helsing and I feared that the end was near.  He covered hisface with his hands, and slid down on his knees by the sofa, where heremained, perhaps a minute, with his head buried, praying, whilst hisshoulders shook with grief.  I took him by the hand and raised him up."Come," I said, "my dear old fellow, summon all your fortitude.  Itwill be best and easiest for her."When we came into Lucy's room I could see that Van Helsing had, withhis usual forethought, been putting matters straight and makingeverything look as pleasing as possible.  He had even brushed Lucy'shair, so that it lay on the pillow in its usual sunny ripples.  Whenwe came into the room she opened her eyes, and seeing him, whisperedsoftly, "Arthur!  Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come!"He was stooping to kiss her, when Van Helsing motioned him back."No," he whispered, "not yet!  Hold her hand, it will comfort hermore."So Arthur took her hand and knelt beside her, and she looked her best,with all the soft lines matching the angelic beauty of her eyes.  Thengradually her eyes closed, and she sank to sleep.  For a little bither breast heaved softly, and her breath came and went like a tiredchild's.And then insensibly there came the strange change which I had noticedin the night.  Her breathing grew stertorous, the mouth opened, andthe pale gums, drawn back, made the teeth look longer and sharper thanever.  In a sort of sleep-waking, vague, unconscious way she openedher eyes, which were now dull and hard at once, and said in a soft,voluptuous voice, such as I had never heard from her lips, "Arthur!Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come!  Kiss me!"Arthur bent eagerly over to kiss her, but at that instant Van Helsing,who, like me, had been startled by her voice, swooped upon him, andcatching him by the neck with both hands, dragged him back with a furyof strength which I never thought he could have possessed, andactually hurled him almost across the room."Not on your life!" he said, "not for your living soul and hers!"  Andhe stood between them like a lion at bay.Arthur was so taken aback that he did not for a moment know what to door say, and before any impulse of violence could seize him he realizedthe place and the occasion, and stood silent, waiting.I kept my eyes fixed on Lucy, as did Van Helsing, and we saw a spasmas of rage flit like a shadow over her face.  The sharp teeth clampedtogether.  Then her eyes closed, and she breathed heavily.Very shortly after she opened her eyes in all their softness, andputting out her poor, pale, thin hand, took Van Helsing's great brownone, drawing it close to her, she kissed it.  "My true friend," shesaid, in a faint voice, but with untellable pathos, "My true friend,and his!  Oh, guard him, and give me peace!""I swear it!" he said solemnly, kneeling beside her and holding up hishand, as one who registers an oath.  Then he turned to Arthur, andsaid to him, "Come, my child, take her hand in yours, and kiss her onthe forehead, and only once."Their eyes met instead of their lips, and so they parted.  Lucy's eyesclosed, and Van Helsing, who had been watching closely, took Arthur'sarm, and drew him away.And then Lucy's breathing became stertorous again, and all at once itceased."It is all over," said Van Helsing.  "She is dead!"I took Arthur by the arm, and led him away to the drawing room, wherehe sat down, and covered his face with his hands, sobbing in a waythat nearly broke me down to see.I went back to the room, and found Van Helsing looking at poor Lucy,and his face was sterner than ever.  Some change had come over herbody.  Death had given back part of her beauty, for her brow andcheeks had recovered some of their flowing lines.  Even the lips hadlost their deadly pallor.  It was as if the blood, no longer neededfor the working of the heart, had gone to make the harshness of deathas little rude as might be."We thought her dying whilst she slept, and sleeping when she died."I stood beside Van Helsing, and said, "Ah well, poor girl, there ispeace for her at last.  It is the end!"He turned to me, and said with grave solemnity, "Not so, alas!  Notso.  It is only the beginning!"When I asked him what he meant, he only shook his head and answered,"We can do nothing as yet.  Wait and see."CHAPTER 13DR. SEWARD'S DIARY--cont.The funeral was arranged for the next succeeding day, so that Lucy andher mother might be buried together.  I attended to all the ghastlyformalities, and the urbane undertaker proved that his staff wasafflicted, or blessed, with something of his own obsequious suavity.Even the woman who performed the last offices for the dead remarked tome, in a confidential, brother-professional way, when she had come outfrom the death chamber,"She makes a very beautiful corpse, sir.  It's quite a privilege toattend on her.  It's not too much to say that she will do credit toour establishment!"I noticed that Van Helsing never kept far away.  This was possiblefrom the disordered state of things in the household.  There were norelatives at hand, and as Arthur had to be back the next day to attendat his father's funeral, we were unable to notify any one who shouldhave been bidden.  Under the circumstances, Van Helsing and I took itupon ourselves to examine papers, etc.  He insisted upon looking overLucy's papers himself.  I asked him why, for I feared that he, being aforeigner, might not be quite aware of English legal requirements, andso might in ignorance make some unnecessary trouble.He answered me, "I know, I know.  You forget that I am a lawyer aswell as a doctor.  But this is not altogether for the law.  You knewthat, when you avoided the coroner.  I have more than him to avoid.There may be papers more, such as this."As he spoke he took from his pocket book the memorandum which had beenin Lucy's breast, and which she had torn in her sleep."When you find anything of the solicitor who is for the late Mrs.Westenra, seal all her papers, and write him tonight.  For me, I watchhere in the room and in Miss Lucy's old room all night, and I myselfsearch for what may be.  It is not well that her very thoughts go intothe hands of strangers."I went on with my part of the work, and in another half hour had foundthe name and address of Mrs. Westenra's solicitor and had written tohim.  All the poor lady's papers were in order.  Explicit directionsregarding the place of burial were given.  I had hardly sealed theletter, when, to my surprise, Van Helsing walked into the room,saying,"Can I help you friend John?  I am free, and if I may, my service isto you.""Have you got what you looked for?" I asked.To which he replied, "I did not look for any specific thing.  I onlyhoped to find, and find I have, all that there was, only some lettersand a few memoranda, and a diary new begun.  But I have them here, andwe shall for the present say nothing of them.  I shall see that poorlad tomorrow evening, and, with his sanction, I shall use some."When we had finished the work in hand, he said to me, "And now, friendJohn, I think we may to bed.  We want sleep, both you and I, and restto recuperate.  Tomorrow we shall have much to do, but for the tonightthere is no need of us.  Alas!"Before turning in we went to look at poor Lucy.  The undertaker hadcertainly done his work well, for the room was turned into a smallchapelle ardente.  There was a wilderness of beautiful white flowers,and death was made as little repulsive as might be.  The end of thewinding sheet was laid over the face.  When the Professor bent overand turned it gently back, we both started at the beauty before us.The tall wax candles showing a sufficient light to note it well.  AllLucy's loveliness had come back to her in death, and the hours thathad passed, instead of leaving traces of 'decay's effacing fingers',had but restored the beauty of life, till positively I could notbelieve my eyes that I was looking at a corpse.The Professor looked sternly grave.  He had not loved her as I had,and there was no need for tears in his eyes.  He said to me, "Remaintill I return," and left the room.  He came back with a handful ofwild garlic from the box waiting in the hall, but which had not beenopened, and placed the flowers amongst the others on and around thebed.  Then he took from his neck, inside his collar, a little goldcrucifix, and placed it over the mouth.  He restored the sheet to itsplace, and we came away.I was undressing in my own room, when, with a premonitory tap at thedoor, he entered, and at once began to speak."Tomorrow I want you to bring me, before night, a set of post-mortemknives.""Must we make an autopsy?" I asked."Yes and no.  I want to operate, but not what you think.  Let me tellyou now, but not a word to another.  I want to cut off her head andtake out her heart.  Ah!  You a surgeon, and so shocked!  You, whom Ihave seen with no tremble of hand or heart, do operations of life anddeath that make the rest shudder.  Oh, but I must not forget, my dearfriend John, that you loved her, and I have not forgotten it for is Ithat shall operate, and you must not help.  I would like to do ittonight, but for Arthur I must not.  He will be free after hisfather's funeral tomorrow, and he will want to see her, to see it.Then, when she is coffined ready for the next day, you and I shallcome when all sleep.  We shall unscrew the coffin lid, and shall doour operation, and then replace all, so that none know, save wealone.""But why do it at all?  The girl is dead.  Why mutilate her poor bodywithout need?  And if there is no necessity for a post-mortem andnothing to gain by it, no good to her, to us, to science, to humanknowledge, why do it?  Without such it is monstrous."For answer he put his hand on my shoulder, and said, with infinitetenderness, "Friend John, I pity your poor bleeding heart, and I loveyou the more because it does so bleed.  If I could, I would take onmyself the burden that you do bear.  But there are things that youknow not, but that you shall know, and bless me for knowing, thoughthey are not pleasant things.  John, my child, you have been my friendnow many years, and yet did you ever know me to do any without goodcause?  I may err, I am but man, but I believe in all I do.  Was itnot for these causes that you send for me when the great troublecame?  Yes!  Were you not amazed, nay horrified, when I would not letArthur kiss his love, though she was dying, and snatched him away byall my strength?  Yes!  And yet you saw how she thanked me, with herso beautiful dying eyes, her voice, too, so weak, and she kiss myrough old hand and bless me?  Yes!  And did you not hear me swearpromise to her, that so she closed her eyes grateful?  Yes!"Well, I have good reason now for all I want to do.  You have for manyyears trust me.  You have believe me weeks past, when there be thingsso strange that you might have well doubt.  Believe me yet a little,friend John.  If you trust me not, then I must tell what I think, andthat is not perhaps well.  And if I work, as work I shall, no mattertrust or no trust, without my friend trust in me, I work with heavyheart and feel oh so lonely when I want all help and courage that maybe!"  He paused a moment and went on solemnly, "Friend John, there arestrange and terrible days before us.  Let us not be two, but one, thatso we work to a good end.  Will you not have faith in me?"I took his hand, and promised him.  I held my door open as he wentaway, and watched him go to his room and close the door.  As I stoodwithout moving, I saw one of the maids pass silently along thepassage, she had her back to me, so did not see me, and go into theroom where Lucy lay.  The sight touched me.  Devotion is so rare, andwe are so grateful to those who show it unasked to those we love.  Herewas a poor girl putting aside the terrors which she naturally had ofdeath to go watch alone by the bier of the mistress whom she loved, sothat the poor clay might not be lonely till laid to eternal rest.I must have slept long and soundly, for it was broad daylight when VanHelsing waked me by coming into my room.  He came over to my bedsideand said, "You need not trouble about the knives.  We shall not doit.""Why not?" I asked.  For his solemnity of the night before hadgreatly impressed me."Because," he said sternly, "it is too late, or too early.  See!"Here he held up the little golden crucifix."This was stolen in the night.""How stolen," I asked in wonder, "since you have it now?""Because I get it back from the worthless wretch who stole it, fromthe woman who robbed the dead and the living.  Her punishment willsurely come, but not through me.  She knew not altogether what shedid, and thus unknowing, she only stole.  Now we must wait."  He wentaway on the word, leaving me with a new mystery to think of, a newpuzzle to grapple with.The forenoon was a dreary time, but at noon the solicitor came, Mr.Marquand, of Wholeman, Sons, Marquand & Lidderdale.  He was verygenial and very appreciative of what we had done, and took off ourhands all cares as to details.  During lunch he told us that Mrs.Westenra had for some time expected sudden death from her heart, andhad put her affairs in absolute order.  He informed us that, with theexception of a certain entailed property of Lucy's father which now,in default of direct issue, went back to a distant branch of thefamily, the whole estate, real and personal, was left absolutely toArthur Holmwood.  When he had told us so much he went on,"Frankly we did our best to prevent such a testamentary disposition,and pointed out certain contingencies that might leave her daughtereither penniless or not so free as she should be to act regarding amatrimonial alliance.  Indeed, we pressed the matter so far that wealmost came into collision, for she asked us if we were or were notprepared to carry out her wishes.  Of course, we had then noalternative but to accept.  We were right in principle, andninety-nine times out of a hundred we should have proved, by the logicof events, the accuracy of our judgment."Frankly, however, I must admit that in this case any other form ofdisposition would have rendered impossible the carrying out of herwishes.  For by her predeceasing her daughter the latter would havecome into possession of the property, and, even had she only survivedher mother by five minutes, her property would, in case there were nowill, and a will was a practical impossibility in such a case, havebeen treated at her decease as under intestacy.  In which case LordGodalming, though so dear a friend, would have had no claim in theworld.  And the inheritors, being remote, would not be likely toabandon their just rights, for sentimental reasons regarding an entirestranger.  I assure you, my dear sirs, I am rejoiced at the result,perfectly rejoiced."He was a good fellow, but his rejoicing at the one little part, inwhich he was officially interested, of so great a tragedy, was anobject-lesson in the limitations of sympathetic understanding.He did not remain long, but said he would look in later in the day andsee Lord Godalming.  His coming, however, had been a certain comfortto us, since it assured us that we should not have to dread hostilecriticism as to any of our acts.  Arthur was expected at five o'clock,so a little before that time we visited the death chamber.  It was soin very truth, for now both mother and daughter lay in it.  Theundertaker, true to his craft, had made the best display he could ofhis goods, and there was a mortuary air about the place that loweredour spirits at once.Van Helsing ordered the former arrangement to be adhered to,explaining that, as Lord Godalming was coming very soon, it would beless harrowing to his feelings to see all that was left of his fianceequite alone.The undertaker seemed shocked at his own stupidity and exerted himselfto restore things to the condition in which we left them the nightbefore, so that when Arthur came such shocks to his feelings as wecould avoid were saved.Poor fellow!  He looked desperately sad and broken.  Even his stalwartmanhood seemed to have shrunk somewhat under the strain of hismuch-tried emotions.  He had, I knew, been very genuinely anddevotedly attached to his father, and to lose him, and at such a time,was a bitter blow to him.  With me he was warm as ever, and to VanHelsing he was sweetly courteous.  But I could not help seeing thatthere was some constraint with him.  The professor noticed it too, andmotioned me to bring him upstairs.  I did so, and left him at the doorof the room, as I felt he would like to be quite alone with her, buthe took my arm and led me in, saying huskily,"You loved her too, old fellow.  She told me all about it, and therewas no friend had a closer place in her heart than you.  I don't knowhow to thank you for all you have done for her.  I can't thinkyet . . ."Here he suddenly broke down, and threw his arms round my shoulders andlaid his head on my breast, crying, "Oh, Jack!  Jack!  What shall Ido?  The whole of life seems gone from me all at once, and there isnothing in the wide world for me to live for."I comforted him as well as I could.  In such cases men do not needmuch expression.  A grip of the hand, the tightening of an arm overthe shoulder, a sob in unison, are expressions of sympathy dear to aman's heart.  I stood still and silent till his sobs died away, andthen I said softly to him, "Come and look at her."Together we moved over to the bed, and I lifted the lawn from herface.  God!  How beautiful she was.  Every hour seemed to be enhancingher loveliness.  It frightened and amazed me somewhat.  And as forArthur, he fell to trembling, and finally was shaken with doubt aswith an ague.  At last, after a long pause, he said to me in a faintwhisper, "Jack, is she really dead?"I assured him sadly that it was so, and went on to suggest, for I feltthat such a horrible doubt should not have life for a moment longerthan I could help, that it often happened that after death facesbecome softened and even resolved into their youthful beauty, thatthis was especially so when death had been preceded by any acute orprolonged suffering.  I seemed to quite do away with any doubt, andafter kneeling beside the couch for a while and looking at herlovingly and long, he turned aside.  I told him that that must begoodbye, as the coffin had to be prepared, so he went back and tookher dead hand in his and kissed it, and bent over and kissed herforehead.  He came away, fondly looking back over his shoulder at heras he came.I left him in the drawing room, and told Van Helsing that he had saidgoodbye, so the latter went to the kitchen to tell the undertaker'smen to proceed with the preparations and to screw up the coffin.  Whenhe came out of the room again I told him of Arthur's question, and hereplied, "I am not surprised.  Just now I doubted for a momentmyself!"We all dined together, and I could see that poor Art was trying tomake the best of things.  Van Helsing had been silent all dinner time,but when we had lit our cigars he said, "Lord . . ." but Arthurinterrupted him."No, no, not that, for God's sake!  Not yet at any rate.  Forgive me,sir.  I did not mean to speak offensively.  It is only because my lossis so recent."The Professor answered very sweetly, "I only used that name because Iwas in doubt.  I must not call you 'Mr.' and I have grown to love you,yes, my dear boy, to love you, as Arthur."Arthur held out his hand, and took the old man's warmly.  "Call mewhat you will," he said.  "I hope I may always have the title of afriend.  And let me say that I am at a loss for words to thank you foryour goodness to my poor dear."  He paused a moment, and went on, "Iknow that she understood your goodness even better than I do.  And ifI was rude or in any way wanting at that time you acted so, youremember"--the Professor nodded--"you must forgive me."He answered with a grave kindness, "I know it was hard for you toquite trust me then, for to trust such violence needs to understand,and I take it that you do not, that you cannot, trust me now, for youdo not yet understand.  And there may be more times when I shall wantyou to trust when you cannot, and may not, and must not yetunderstand.  But the time will come when your trust shall be whole andcomplete in me, and when you shall understand as though the sunlighthimself shone through.  Then you shall bless me from first to last foryour own sake, and for the sake of others, and for her dear sake towhom I swore to protect.""And indeed, indeed, sir," said Arthur warmly.  "I shall in all waystrust you.  I know and believe you have a very noble heart, and youare Jack's friend, and you were hers.  You shall do what you like."The Professor cleared his throat a couple of times, as though about tospeak, and finally said, "May I ask you something now?""Certainly.""You know that Mrs. Westenra left you all her property?""No, poor dear.  I never thought of it.""And as it is all yours, you have a right to deal with it as you will.I want you to give me permission to read all Miss Lucy's papers andletters.  Believe me, it is no idle curiosity.  I have a motive ofwhich, be sure, she would have approved.  I have them all here.  Itook them before we knew that all was yours, so that no strange handmight touch them, no strange eye look through words into her soul.  Ishall keep them, if I may.  Even you may not see them yet, but I shallkeep them safe.  No word shall be lost, and in the good time I shallgive them back to you.  It is a hard thing that I ask, but you will doit, will you not, for Lucy's sake?"Arthur spoke out heartily, like his old self, "Dr. Van Helsing, youmay do what you will.  I feel that in saying this I am doing what mydear one would have approved.  I shall not trouble you with questionstill the time comes."The old Professor stood up as he said solemnly, "And you are right.There will be pain for us all, but it will not be all pain, nor willthis pain be the last.  We and you too, you most of all, dear boy,will have to pass through the bitter water before we reach the sweet.But we must be brave of heart and unselfish, and do our duty, and allwill be well!"I slept on a sofa in Arthur's room that night.  Van Helsing did not goto bed at all.  He went to and fro, as if patroling the house, and wasnever out of sight of the room where Lucy lay in her coffin, strewnwith the wild garlic flowers, which sent through the odour of lily androse, a heavy, overpowering smell into the night.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL22 September.--In the train to Exeter.  Jonathan sleeping.  It seemsonly yesterday that the last entry was made, and yet how much betweenthen, in Whitby and all the world before me, Jonathan away and no newsof him, and now, married to Jonathan, Jonathan a solicitor, a partner,rich, master of his business, Mr. Hawkins dead and buried, andJonathan with another attack that may harm him.  Some day he may askme about it.  Down it all goes.  I am rusty in my shorthand, see whatunexpected prosperity does for us, so it may be as well to freshen itup again with an exercise anyhow.The service was very simple and very solemn.  There were onlyourselves and the servants there, one or two old friends of his fromExeter, his London agent, and a gentleman representing Sir JohnPaxton, the President of the Incorporated Law Society.  Jonathan and Istood hand in hand, and we felt that our best and dearest friend wasgone from us.We came back to town quietly, taking a bus to Hyde Park Corner.Jonathan thought it would interest me to go into the Row for a while,so we sat down.  But there were very few people there, and it wassad-looking and desolate to see so many empty chairs.  It made usthink of the empty chair at home.  So we got up and walked downPiccadilly.  Jonathan was holding me by the arm, the way he used to inthe old days before I went to school.  I felt it very improper, foryou can't go on for some years teaching etiquette and decorum to othergirls without the pedantry of it biting into yourself a bit.  But itwas Jonathan, and he was my husband, and we didn't know anybody whosaw us, and we didn't care if they did, so on we walked.  I waslooking at a very beautiful girl, in a big cart-wheel hat, sitting ina victoria outside Guiliano's, when I felt Jonathan clutch my arm sotight that he hurt me, and he said under his breath, "My God!"I am always anxious about Jonathan, for I fear that some nervous fitmay upset him again.  So I turned to him quickly, and asked him whatit was that disturbed him.He was very pale, and his eyes seemed bulging out as, half in terrorand half in amazement, he gazed at a tall, thin man, with a beaky noseand black moustache and pointed beard, who was also observing thepretty girl.  He was looking at her so hard that he did not see eitherof us, and so I had a good view of him.  His face was not a goodface.  It was hard, and cruel, and sensual, and big white teeth, thatlooked all the whiter because his lips were so red, were pointed likean animal's.  Jonathan kept staring at him, till I was afraid he wouldnotice.  I feared he might take it ill, he looked so fierce and nasty.I asked Jonathan why he was disturbed, and he answered, evidentlythinking that I knew as much about it as he did, "Do you see who itis?""No, dear," I said.  "I don't know him, who is it?"  His answer seemedto shock and thrill me, for it was said as if he did not know that itwas me, Mina, to whom he was speaking.  "It is the man himself!"The poor dear was evidently terrified at something, very greatlyterrified.  I do believe that if he had not had me to lean on and tosupport him he would have sunk down.  He kept staring.  A man came outof the shop with a small parcel, and gave it to the lady, who thendrove off.  The dark man kept his eyes fixed on her, and when thecarriage moved up Piccadilly he followed in the same direction, andhailed a hansom.  Jonathan kept looking after him, and said, as if tohimself,"I believe it is the Count, but he has grown young.  My God, if thisbe so!  Oh, my God!  My God!  If only I knew!  If only I knew!"  He wasdistressing himself so much that I feared to keep his mind on thesubject by asking him any questions, so I remained silent.  I drewaway quietly, and he, holding my arm, came easily.  We walked a littlefurther, and then went in and sat for a while in the Green Park.  Itwas a hot day for autumn, and there was a comfortable seat in a shadyplace.  After a few minutes' staring at nothing, Jonathan's eyesclosed, and he went quickly into a sleep, with his head on myshoulder.  I thought it was the best thing for him, so did not disturbhim.  In about twenty minutes he woke up, and said to me quitecheerfully,"Why, Mina, have I been asleep!  Oh, do forgive me for being so rude.Come, and we'll have a cup of tea somewhere."He had evidently forgotten all about the dark stranger, as in hisillness he had forgotten all that this episode had reminded him of.  Idon't like this lapsing into forgetfulness.  It may make or continuesome injury to the brain.  I must not ask him, for fear I shall domore harm than good, but I must somehow learn the facts of his journeyabroad.  The time is come, I fear, when I must open the parcel, andknow what is written.  Oh, Jonathan, you will, I know, forgive me if Ido wrong, but it is for your own dear sake.Later.--A sad homecoming in every way, the house empty of the dearsoul who was so good to us.  Jonathan still pale and dizzy under aslight relapse of his malady, and now a telegram from Van Helsing,whoever he may be.  "You will be grieved to hear that Mrs. Westenradied five days ago, and that Lucy died the day before yesterday.  Theywere both buried today."Oh, what a wealth of sorrow in a few words!  Poor Mrs. Westenra!  PoorLucy!  Gone, gone, never to return to us!  And poor, poor Arthur, tohave lost such a sweetness out of his life!  God help us all to bearour troubles.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY-CONT.22 September.--It is all over.  Arthur has gone back to Ring, and hastaken Quincey Morris with him.  What a fine fellow is Quincey!  Ibelieve in my heart of hearts that he suffered as much about Lucy'sdeath as any of us, but he bore himself through it like a moralViking.  If America can go on breeding men like that, she will be apower in the world indeed.  Van Helsing is lying down, having a restpreparatory to his journey.  He goes to Amsterdam tonight, but says hereturns tomorrow night, that he only wants to make some arrangementswhich can only be made personally.  He is to stop with me then, if hecan.  He says he has work to do in London which may take him sometime.  Poor old fellow!  I fear that the strain of the past week hasbroken down even his iron strength.  All the time of the burial hewas, I could see, putting some terrible restraint on himself.  When itwas all over, we were standing beside Arthur, who, poor fellow, wasspeaking of his part in the operation where his blood had beentransfused to his Lucy's veins.  I could see Van Helsing's face growwhite and purple by turns.  Arthur was saying that he felt since thenas if they two had been really married, and that she was his wife inthe sight of God.  None of us said a word of the other operations, andnone of us ever shall.  Arthur and Quincey went away together to thestation, and Van Helsing and I came on here.  The moment we were alonein the carriage he gave way to a regular fit of hysterics.  He hasdenied to me since that it was hysterics, and insisted that it wasonly his sense of humor asserting itself under very terribleconditions.  He laughed till he cried, and I had to draw down theblinds lest any one should see us and misjudge.  And then he cried,till he laughed again, and laughed and cried together, just as a womandoes.  I tried to be stern with him, as one is to a woman under thecircumstances, but it had no effect.  Men and women are so differentin manifestations of nervous strength or weakness!  Then when his facegrew grave and stern again I asked him why his mirth, and why at sucha time.  His reply was in a way characteristic of him, for it waslogical and forceful and mysterious.  He said,"Ah, you don't comprehend, friend John.  Do not think that I am notsad, though I laugh.  See, I have cried even when the laugh did chokeme.  But no more think that I am all sorry when I cry, for the laughhe come just the same.  Keep it always with you that laughter whoknock at your door and say, 'May I come in?' is not true laughter.No!  He is a king, and he come when and how he like.  He ask noperson, he choose no time of suitability.  He say, 'I am here.'Behold, in example I grieve my heart out for that so sweet younggirl.  I give my blood for her, though I am old and worn.  I give mytime, my skill, my sleep.  I let my other sufferers want that she mayhave all.  And yet I can laugh at her very grave, laugh when the clayfrom the spade of the sexton drop upon her coffin and say 'Thud,thud!' to my heart, till it send back the blood from my cheek.  Myheart bleed for that poor boy, that dear boy, so of the age of mineown boy had I been so blessed that he live, and with his hair and eyesthe same."There, you know now why I love him so.  And yet when he say thingsthat touch my husband-heart to the quick, and make my father-heartyearn to him as to no other man, not even you, friend John, for we aremore level in experiences than father and son, yet even at such amoment King Laugh he come to me and shout and bellow in my ear, 'Here Iam!  Here I am!' till the blood come dance back and bring some of thesunshine that he carry with him to my cheek.  Oh, friend John, it is astrange world, a sad world, a world full of miseries, and woes, andtroubles.  And yet when King Laugh come, he make them all dance to thetune he play.  Bleeding hearts, and dry bones of the churchyard, andtears that burn as they fall, all dance together to the music that hemake with that smileless mouth of him.  And believe me, friend John,that he is good to come, and kind.  Ah, we men and women are likeropes drawn tight with strain that pull us different ways.  Then tearscome, and like the rain on the ropes, they brace us up, until perhapsthe strain become too great, and we break.  But King Laugh he comelike the sunshine, and he ease off the strain again, and we bear to goon with our labor, what it may be."I did not like to wound him by pretending not to see his idea, but asI did not yet understand the cause of his laughter, I asked him.  Ashe answered me his face grew stern, and he said in quite a differenttone,"Oh, it was the grim irony of it all, this so lovely lady garlandedwith flowers, that looked so fair as life, till one by one we wonderedif she were truly dead, she laid in that so fine marble house in thatlonely churchyard, where rest so many of her kin, laid there with themother who loved her, and whom she loved, and that sacred bell going'Toll!  Toll!  Toll!' so sad and slow, and those holy men, with thewhite garments of the angel, pretending to read books, and yet all thetime their eyes never on the page, and all of us with the bowed head.And all for what?  She is dead, so!  Is it not?""Well, for the life of me, Professor," I said, "I can't see anythingto laugh at in all that.  Why, your expression makes it a harderpuzzle than before.  But even if the burial service was comic, whatabout poor Art and his trouble?  Why his heart was simply breaking.""Just so.  Said he not that the transfusion of his blood to her veinshad made her truly his bride?""Yes, and it was a sweet and comforting idea for him.""Quite so.  But there was a difficulty, friend John.  If so that, thenwhat about the others?  Ho, ho!  Then this so sweet maid is apolyandrist, and me, with my poor wife dead to me, but alive byChurch's law, though no wits, all gone, even I, who am faithfulhusband to this now-no-wife, am bigamist.""I don't see where the joke comes in there either!" I said, and I didnot feel particularly pleased with him for saying such things.  Helaid his hand on my arm, and said,"Friend John, forgive me if I pain.  I showed not my feeling to otherswhen it would wound, but only to you, my old friend, whom I can trust.If you could have looked into my heart then when I want to laugh, ifyou could have done so when the laugh arrived, if you could do so now,when King Laugh have pack up his crown, and all that is to him, for hego far, far away from me, and for a long, long time, maybe you wouldperhaps pity me the most of all."I was touched by the tenderness of his tone, and asked why."Because I know!"And now we are all scattered, and for many a long day loneliness willsit over our roofs with brooding wings.  Lucy lies in the tomb of herkin, a lordly death house in a lonely churchyard, away from teemingLondon, where the air is fresh, and the sun rises over Hampstead Hill,and where wild flowers grow of their own accord.So I can finish this diary, and God only knows if I shall ever beginanother.  If I do, or if I even open this again, it will be to dealwith different people and different themes, for here at the end, wherethe romance of my life is told, ere I go back to take up the thread ofmy life-work, I say sadly and without hope, "FINIS".THE WESTMINSTER GAZETTE, 25 SEPTEMBER A HAMPSTEAD MYSTERYThe neighborhood of Hampstead is just at present exercisedwith a series of events which seem to run on lines parallelto those of what was known to the writers of headlines as"The Kensington Horror," or "The Stabbing Woman," or "TheWoman in Black."  During the past two or three days severalcases have occurred of young children straying from home orneglecting to return from their playing on the Heath.  Inall these cases the children were too young to give anyproperly intelligible account of themselves, but theconsensus of their excuses is that they had been with a"bloofer lady."  It has always been late in the evening whenthey have been missed, and on two occasions the childrenhave not been found until early in the following morning.It is generally supposed in the neighborhood that, as thefirst child missed gave as his reason for being away that a"bloofer lady" had asked him to come for a walk, the othershad picked up the phrase and used it as occasion served.  Thisis the more natural as the favourite game of the little onesat present is luring each other away by wiles.  A correspondentwrites us that to see some of the tiny tots pretending to be the"bloofer lady" is supremely funny.  Some of our caricaturistsmight, he says, take a lesson in the irony of grotesque bycomparing the reality and the picture.  It is only in accordancewith general principles of human nature that the "bloofer lady"should be the popular role at these al fresco performances.  Ourcorrespondent naively says that even Ellen Terry could not be sowinningly attractive as some of these grubby-faced littlechildren pretend, and even imagine themselves, to be.There is, however, possibly a serious side to the question,for some of the children, indeed all who have been missedat night, have been slightly torn or wounded in the throat.The wounds seem such as might be made by a rat or a smalldog, and although of not much importance individually, would tendto show that whatever animal inflicts them has a system or methodof its own.  The police of the division have been instructed tokeep a sharp lookout for straying children, especially when veryyoung, in and around Hampstead Heath, and for any stray dog whichmay be about.THE WESTMINSTER GAZETTE, 25 SEPTEMBER EXTRA SPECIALTHE HAMPSTEAD HORRORANOTHER CHILD INJUREDTHE "BLOOFER LADY"We have just received intelligence that another child,missed last night, was only discovered late in the morningunder a furze bush at the Shooter's Hill side of HampsteadHeath, which is perhaps, less frequented than the otherparts.  It has the same tiny wound in the throat as hasbeen noticed in other cases.  It was terribly weak, andlooked quite emaciated.  It too, when partially restored,had the common story to tell of being lured away by the"bloofer lady".CHAPTER 14MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL23 September.--Jonathan is better after a bad night.  I am so gladthat he has plenty of work to do, for that keeps his mind off theterrible things, and oh, I am rejoiced that he is not now weighed downwith the responsibility of his new position.  I knew he would be trueto himself, and now how proud I am to see my Jonathan rising to theheight of his advancement and keeping pace in all ways with the dutiesthat come upon him.  He will be away all day till late, for he said hecould not lunch at home.  My household work is done, so I shall takehis foreign journal, and lock myself up in my room and read it.24 September.--I hadn't the heart to write last night, that terriblerecord of Jonathan's upset me so.  Poor dear!  How he must havesuffered, whether it be true or only imagination.  I wonder if thereis any truth in it at all.  Did he get his brain fever, and then writeall those terrible things, or had he some cause for it all?  I supposeI shall never know, for I dare not open the subject to him.  And yetthat man we saw yesterday!  He seemed quite certain of him, poorfellow!  I suppose it was the funeral upset him and sent his mind backon some train of thought.He believes it all himself.  I remember how on our wedding day he said"Unless some solemn duty come upon me to go back to the bitter hours,asleep or awake, mad or sane . . ."  There seems to be through it allsome thread of continuity.  That fearful Count was coming to London.If it should be, and he came to London, with its teeming millions . . .There may be a solemn duty, and if it come we must not shrink fromit.  I shall be prepared.  I shall get my typewriter this very hourand begin transcribing.  Then we shall be ready for other eyes ifrequired.  And if it be wanted, then, perhaps, if I am ready, poorJonathan may not be upset, for I can speak for him and never let himbe troubled or worried with it at all.  If ever Jonathan quite getsover the nervousness he may want to tell me of it all, and I can askhim questions and find out things, and see how I may comfort him.LETTER, VAN HELSING TO MRS. HARKER24 September(Confidence)"Dear Madam,"I pray you to pardon my writing, in that I am so farfriend as that I sent to you sad news of Miss LucyWestenra's death.  By the kindness of Lord Godalming, I amempowered to read her letters and papers, for I am deeplyconcerned about certain matters vitally important.  In themI find some letters from you, which show how great friendsyou were and how you love her.  Oh, Madam Mina, by thatlove, I implore you, help me.  It is for others' good thatI ask, to redress great wrong, and to lift much and terribletroubles, that may be more great than you can know.  May it bethat I see you?  You can trust me.  I am friend of Dr. JohnSeward and of Lord Godalming (that was Arthur of Miss Lucy).  Imust keep it private for the present from all.  I should come toExeter to see you at once if you tell me I am privilege to come,and where and when.  I implore your pardon, Madam.  I have readyour letters to poor Lucy, and know how good you are and how yourhusband suffer.  So I pray you, if it may be, enlighten him not,least it may harm.  Again your pardon, and forgive me."VAN HELSING"TELEGRAM, MRS. HARKER TO VAN HELSING25 September.--Come today by quarter past ten train if youcan catch it.  Can see you any time you call."WILHELMINA HARKER"MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL25 September.--I cannot help feeling terribly excited as the timedraws near for the visit of Dr. Van Helsing, for somehow I expect thatit will throw some light upon Jonathan's sad experience, and as heattended poor dear Lucy in her last illness, he can tell me all abouther.  That is the reason of his coming.  It is concerning Lucy and hersleep-walking, and not about Jonathan.  Then I shall never know thereal truth now!  How silly I am.  That awful journal gets hold of myimagination and tinges everything with something of its own colour.  Ofcourse it is about Lucy.  That habit came back to the poor dear, andthat awful night on the cliff must have made her ill.  I had almostforgotten in my own affairs how ill she was afterwards.  She must havetold him of her sleep-walking adventure on the cliff, and that I knewall about it, and now he wants me to tell him what I know, so that hemay understand.  I hope I did right in not saying anything of it toMrs. Westenra.  I should never forgive myself if any act of mine, wereit even a negative one, brought harm on poor dear Lucy.  I hope too,Dr. Van Helsing will not blame me.  I have had so much trouble andanxiety of late that I feel I cannot bear more just at present.I suppose a cry does us all good at times, clears the air as otherrain does.  Perhaps it was reading the journal yesterday that upsetme, and then Jonathan went away this morning to stay away from me awhole day and night, the first time we have been parted since ourmarriage.  I do hope the dear fellow will take care of himself, andthat nothing will occur to upset him.  It is two o'clock, and thedoctor will be here soon now.  I shall say nothing of Jonathan'sjournal unless he asks me.  I am so glad I have typewritten out my ownjournal, so that, in case he asks about Lucy, I can hand it to him.It will save much questioning.Later.--He has come and gone.  Oh, what a strange meeting, and how itall makes my head whirl round.  I feel like one in a dream.  Can it beall possible, or even a part of it?  If I had not read Jonathan'sjournal first, I should never have accepted even a possibility.  Poor,poor, dear Jonathan!  How he must have suffered.  Please the good God,all this may not upset him again.  I shall try to save him from it.But it may be even a consolation and a help to him, terrible though itbe and awful in its consequences, to know for certain that his eyesand ears and brain did not deceive him, and that it is all true.  Itmay be that it is the doubt which haunts him, that when the doubt isremoved, no matter which, waking or dreaming, may prove the truth, hewill be more satisfied and better able to bear the shock.  Dr. VanHelsing must be a good man as well as a clever one if he is Arthur'sfriend and Dr. Seward's, and if they brought him all the way fromHolland to look after Lucy.  I feel from having seen him that he isgood and kind and of a noble nature.  When he comes tomorrow I shallask him about Jonathan.  And then, please God, all this sorrow andanxiety may lead to a good end.  I used to think I would like topractice interviewing.  Jonathan's friend on "The Exeter News" toldhim that memory is everything in such work, that you must be able toput down exactly almost every word spoken, even if you had to refinesome of it afterwards.  Here was a rare interview.  I shall try torecord it verbatim.It was half-past two o'clock when the knock came.  I took my courage adeux mains and waited.  In a few minutes Mary opened the door, andannounced "Dr. Van Helsing".I rose and bowed, and he came towards me, a man of medium weight,strongly built, with his shoulders set back over a broad, deep chestand a neck well balanced on the trunk as the head is on the neck.  Thepoise of the head strikes me at once as indicative of thought andpower.  The head is noble, well-sized, broad, and large behind theears.  The face, clean-shaven, shows a hard, square chin, a largeresolute, mobile mouth, a good-sized nose, rather straight, but withquick, sensitive nostrils, that seem to broaden as the big bushy browscome down and the mouth tightens.  The forehead is broad and fine,rising at first almost straight and then sloping back above two bumpsor ridges wide apart, such a forehead that the reddish hair cannotpossibly tumble over it, but falls naturally back and to the sides.Big, dark blue eyes are set widely apart, and are quick and tender orstern with the man's moods.  He said to me,"Mrs. Harker, is it not?"  I bowed assent."That was Miss Mina Murray?"  Again I assented."It is Mina Murray that I came to see that was friend of that poor dearchild Lucy Westenra.  Madam Mina, it is on account of the dead that Icome.""Sir," I said, "you could have no better claim on me than that youwere a friend and helper of Lucy Westenra."  And I held out my hand.He took it and said tenderly,"Oh, Madam Mina, I know that the friend of that poor little girl mustbe good, but I had yet to learn . . ."  He finished his speech with acourtly bow.  I asked him what it was that he wanted to see me about,so he at once began."I have read your letters to Miss Lucy.  Forgive me, but I had tobegin to inquire somewhere, and there was none to ask.  I know thatyou were with her at Whitby.  She sometimes kept a diary, you need notlook surprised, Madam Mina.  It was begun after you had left, and wasan imitation of you, and in that diary she traces by inference certainthings to a sleep-walking in which she puts down that you saved her.In great perplexity then I come to you, and ask you out of your somuch kindness to tell me all of it that you can remember.""I can tell you, I think, Dr. Van Helsing, all about it.""Ah, then you have good memory for facts, for details?  It is notalways so with young ladies.""No, doctor, but I wrote it all down at the time.  I can show it toyou if you like.""Oh, Madam Mina, I well be grateful.  You will do me much favour."I could not resist the temptation of mystifying him a bit, I supposeit is some taste of the original apple that remains still in ourmouths, so I handed him the shorthand diary.  He took it with agrateful bow, and said, "May I read it?""If you wish," I answered as demurely as I could.  He opened it, andfor an instant his face fell.  Then he stood up and bowed."Oh, you so clever woman!" he said.  "I knew long that Mr. Jonathanwas a man of much thankfulness, but see, his wife have all the goodthings.  And will you not so much honour me and so help me as to readit for me?  Alas!  I know not the shorthand."By this time my little joke was over, and I was almost ashamed.  So Itook the typewritten copy from my work basket and handed it to him."Forgive me," I said.  "I could not help it, but I had been thinkingthat it was of dear Lucy that you wished to ask, and so that you mightnot have time to wait, not on my account, but because I know your timemust be precious, I have written it out on the typewriter for you."He took it and his eyes glistened.  "You are so good," he said.  "Andmay I read it now?  I may want to ask you some things when I haveread.""By all means," I said, "read it over whilst I order lunch, and thenyou can ask me questions whilst we eat."He bowed and settled himself in a chair with his back to the light,and became so absorbed in the papers, whilst I went to see after lunchchiefly in order that he might not be disturbed.  When I came back, Ifound him walking hurriedly up and down the room, his face all ablazewith excitement.  He rushed up to me and took me by both hands."Oh, Madam Mina," he said, "how can I say what I owe to you?  Thispaper is as sunshine.  It opens the gate to me.  I am dazed, I amdazzled, with so much light, and yet clouds roll in behind the lightevery time.  But that you do not, cannot comprehend.  Oh, but I amgrateful to you, you so clever woman.  Madame," he said this verysolemnly, "if ever Abraham Van Helsing can do anything for you oryours, I trust you will let me know.  It will be pleasure and delightif I may serve you as a friend, as a friend, but all I have everlearned, all I can ever do, shall be for you and those you love.  Thereare darknesses in life, and there are lights.  You are one of thelights.  You will have a happy life and a good life, and your husbandwill be blessed in you.""But, doctor, you praise me too much, and you do not know me.""Not know you, I, who am old, and who have studied all my life men andwomen, I who have made my specialty the brain and all that belongs tohim and all that follow from him!  And I have read your diary that youhave so goodly written for me, and which breathes out truth in everyline.  I, who have read your so sweet letter to poor Lucy of yourmarriage and your trust, not know you!  Oh, Madam Mina, good womentell all their lives, and by day and by hour and by minute, suchthings that angels can read.  And we men who wish to know have in ussomething of angels' eyes.  Your husband is noble nature, and you arenoble too, for you trust, and trust cannot be where there is meannature.  And your husband, tell me of him.  Is he quite well?  Is allthat fever gone, and is he strong and hearty?"I saw here an opening to ask him about Jonathan, so I said, "He wasalmost recovered, but he has been greatly upset by Mr. Hawkins death."He interrupted, "Oh, yes.  I know.  I know.  I have read your last twoletters."I went on, "I suppose this upset him, for when we were in town onThursday last he had a sort of shock.""A shock, and after brain fever so soon!  That is not good.  What kindof shock was it?""He thought he saw some one who recalled something terrible, somethingwhich led to his brain fever."  And here the whole thing seemed tooverwhelm me in a rush.  The pity for Jonathan, the horror which heexperienced, the whole fearful mystery of his diary, and the fear thathas been brooding over me ever since, all came in a tumult.  I supposeI was hysterical, for I threw myself on my knees and held up my handsto him, and implored him to make my husband well again.  He took myhands and raised me up, and made me sit on the sofa, and sat by me.  Heheld my hand in his, and said to me with, oh, such infinite sweetness,"My life is a barren and lonely one, and so full of work that I havenot had much time for friendships, but since I have been summoned tohere by my friend John Seward I have known so many good people andseen such nobility that I feel more than ever, and it has grown withmy advancing years, the loneliness of my life.  Believe me, then, thatI come here full of respect for you, and you have given me hope, hope,not in what I am seeking of, but that there are good women still leftto make life happy, good women, whose lives and whose truths may makegood lesson for the children that are to be.  I am glad, glad, that Imay here be of some use to you.  For if your husband suffer, he sufferwithin the range of my study and experience.  I promise you that Iwill gladly do all for him that I can, all to make his life strong andmanly, and your life a happy one.  Now you must eat.  You areoverwrought and perhaps over-anxious.  Husband Jonathan would not liketo see you so pale, and what he like not where he love, is not to hisgood.  Therefore for his sake you must eat and smile.  You have toldme about Lucy, and so now we shall not speak of it, lest it distress.I shall stay in Exeter tonight, for I want to think much over what youhave told me, and when I have thought I will ask you questions, if Imay.  And then too, you will tell me of husband Jonathan's trouble sofar as you can, but not yet.  You must eat now, afterwards you shalltell me all."After lunch, when we went back to the drawing room, he said to me,"And now tell me all about him."When it came to speaking to this great learned man, I began to fearthat he would think me a weak fool, and Jonathan a madman, thatjournal is all so strange, and I hesitated to go on.  But he was sosweet and kind, and he had promised to help, and I trusted him, so Isaid,"Dr. Van Helsing, what I have to tell you is so queer that you mustnot laugh at me or at my husband.  I have been since yesterday in asort of fever of doubt.  You must be kind to me, and not think mefoolish that I have even half believed some very strange things."He reassured me by his manner as well as his words when he said, "Oh,my dear, if you only know how strange is the matter regarding which Iam here, it is you who would laugh.  I have learned not to thinklittle of any one's belief, no matter how strange it may be.  I havetried to keep an open mind, and it is not the ordinary things of lifethat could close it, but the strange things, the extraordinary things,the things that make one doubt if they be mad or sane.""Thank you, thank you a thousand times!  You have taken a weight off mymind.  If you will let me, I shall give you a paper to read.  It islong, but I have typewritten it out.  It will tell you my trouble andJonathan's.  It is the copy of his journal when abroad, and all thathappened.  I dare not say anything of it.  You will read for yourselfand judge.  And then when I see you, perhaps, you will be very kindand tell me what you think.""I promise," he said as I gave him the papers.  "I shall in themorning, as soon as I can, come to see you and your husband, if Imay.""Jonathan will be here at half-past eleven, and you must come to lunchwith us and see him then.  You could catch the quick 3:34 train, whichwill leave you at Paddington before eight."  He was surprised at myknowledge of the trains offhand, but he does not know that I have madeup all the trains to and from Exeter, so that I may help Jonathan incase he is in a hurry.So he took the papers with him and went away, and I sit here thinking,thinking I don't know what.LETTER (by hand), VAN HELSING TO MRS. HARKER25 September, 6 o'clock"Dear Madam Mina,"I have read your husband's so wonderful diary.  You maysleep without doubt.  Strange and terrible as it is, it istrue!  I will pledge my life on it.  It may be worse forothers, but for him and you there is no dread.  He is anoble fellow, and let me tell you from experience of men,that one who would do as he did in going down that wall andto that room, aye, and going a second time, is not one tobe injured in permanence by a shock.  His brain and hisheart are all right, this I swear, before I have even seenhim, so be at rest.  I shall have much to ask him of otherthings.  I am blessed that today I come to see you, for Ihave learn all at once so much that again I am dazzled,dazzled more than ever, and I must think."Yours the most faithful,"Abraham Van Helsing."LETTER, MRS. HARKER TO VAN HELSING25 September, 6:30 P.M."My dear Dr. Van Helsing,"A thousand thanks for your kind letter, which has taken agreat weight off my mind.  And yet, if it be true, whatterrible things there are in the world, and what an awfulthing if that man, that monster, be really in London!  Ifear to think.  I have this moment, whilst writing, had awire from Jonathan, saying that he leaves by the 6:25 tonightfrom Launceston and will be here at 10:18, so that I shall haveno fear tonight.  Will you, therefore, instead of lunching withus, please come to breakfast at eight o'clock, if this be not tooearly for you?  You can get away, if you are in a hurry, by the10:30 train, which will bring you to Paddington by 2:35.  Do notanswer this, as I shall take it that, if I do not hear, you willcome to breakfast."Believe me,"Your faithful and grateful friend,"Mina Harker."JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL26 September.--I thought never to write in this diary again, but thetime has come.  When I got home last night Mina had supper ready, andwhen we had supped she told me of Van Helsing's visit, and of herhaving given him the two diaries copied out, and of how anxious shehas been about me.  She showed me in the doctor's letter that all Iwrote down was true.  It seems to have made a new man of me.  It wasthe doubt as to the reality of the whole thing that knocked me over.I felt impotent, and in the dark, and distrustful.  But, now that Iknow, I am not afraid, even of the Count.  He has succeeded after all,then, in his design in getting to London, and it was he I saw.  He hasgot younger, and how?  Van Helsing is the man to unmask him and hunthim out, if he is anything like what Mina says.  We sat late, andtalked it over.  Mina is dressing, and I shall call at the hotel in afew minutes and bring him over.He was, I think, surprised to see me.  When I came into the room wherehe was, and introduced myself, he took me by the shoulder, and turnedmy face round to the light, and said, after a sharp scrutiny,"But Madam Mina told me you were ill, that you had had a shock."It was so funny to hear my wife called 'Madam Mina' by this kindly,strong-faced old man.  I smiled, and said, "I was ill, I have had ashock, but you have cured me already.""And how?""By your letter to Mina last night.  I was in doubt, and theneverything took a hue of unreality, and I did not know what to trust,even the evidence of my own senses.  Not knowing what to trust, I didnot know what to do, and so had only to keep on working in what hadhitherto been the groove of my life.  The groove ceased to avail me,and I mistrusted myself.  Doctor, you don't know what it is to doubteverything, even yourself.  No, you don't, you couldn't with eyebrowslike yours."He seemed pleased, and laughed as he said, "So!  You are aphysiognomist.  I learn more here with each hour.  I am with so muchpleasure coming to you to breakfast, and, oh, sir, you will pardonpraise from an old man, but you are blessed in your wife."I would listen to him go on praising Mina for a day, so I simplynodded and stood silent."She is one of God's women, fashioned by His own hand to show us menand other women that there is a heaven where we can enter, and thatits light can be here on earth.  So true, so sweet, so noble, solittle an egoist, and that, let me tell you, is much in this age, sosceptical and selfish.  And you, sir . . . I have read all the lettersto poor Miss Lucy, and some of them speak of you, so I know you sincesome days from the knowing of others, but I have seen your true selfsince last night.  You will give me your hand, will you not?  And letus be friends for all our lives."We shook hands, and he was so earnest and so kind that it made mequite choky."And now," he said, "may I ask you for some more help?  I have a greattask to do, and at the beginning it is to know.  You can help mehere.  Can you tell me what went before your going to Transylvania?Later on I may ask more help, and of a different kind, but at firstthis will do.""Look here, Sir," I said, "does what you have to do concern theCount?""It does," he said solemnly."Then I am with you heart and soul.  As you go by the 10:30 train, youwill not have time to read them, but I shall get the bundle of papers.You can take them with you and read them in the train."After breakfast I saw him to the station.  When we were parting hesaid, "Perhaps you will come to town if I send for you, and take MadamMina too.""We shall both come when you will," I said.I had got him the morning papers and the London papers of the previousnight, and while we were talking at the carriage window, waiting forthe train to start, he was turning them over.  His eyes suddenlyseemed to catch something in one of them, "The Westminster Gazette", Iknew it by the colour, and he grew quite white.  He read somethingintently, groaning to himself, "Mein Gott!  Mein Gott!  So soon!  Sosoon!"  I do not think he remembered me at the moment.  Just then thewhistle blew, and the train moved off.  This recalled him to himself,and he leaned out of the window and waved his hand, calling out, "Loveto Madam Mina.  I shall write so soon as ever I can."DR. SEWARD'S DIARY26 September.--Truly there is no such thing as finality.  Not a weeksince I said "Finis," and yet here I am starting fresh again, orrather going on with the record.  Until this afternoon I had no causeto think of what is done.  Renfield had become, to all intents, assane as he ever was.  He was already well ahead with his fly business,and he had just started in the spider line also, so he had not been ofany trouble to me.  I had a letter from Arthur, written on Sunday, andfrom it I gather that he is bearing up wonderfully well.  QuinceyMorris is with him, and that is much of a help, for he himself is abubbling well of good spirits.  Quincey wrote me a line too, and fromhim I hear that Arthur is beginning to recover something of his oldbuoyancy, so as to them all my mind is at rest.  As for myself, I wassettling down to my work with the enthusiasm which I used to have forit, so that I might fairly have said that the wound which poor Lucyleft on me was becoming cicatrised.Everything is, however, now reopened, and what is to be the end Godonly knows.  I have an idea that Van Helsing thinks he knows, too, buthe will only let out enough at a time to whet curiosity.  He went toExeter yesterday, and stayed there all night.  Today he came back, andalmost bounded into the room at about half-past five o'clock, andthrust last night's "Westminster Gazette" into my hand."What do you think of that?" he asked as he stood back and folded hisarms.I looked over the paper, for I really did not know what he meant, buthe took it from me and pointed out a paragraph about children beingdecoyed away at Hampstead.  It did not convey much to me, until Ireached a passage where it described small puncture wounds on theirthroats.  An idea struck me, and I looked up."Well?" he said."It is like poor Lucy's.""And what do you make of it?""Simply that there is some cause in common.  Whatever it was thatinjured her has injured them."  I did not quite understand his answer."That is true indirectly, but not directly.""How do you mean, Professor?" I asked.  I was a little inclined totake his seriousness lightly, for, after all, four days of rest andfreedom from burning, harrowing, anxiety does help to restore one'sspirits, but when I saw his face, it sobered me.  Never, even in themidst of our despair about poor Lucy, had he looked more stern."Tell me!" I said.  "I can hazard no opinion.  I do not know what tothink, and I have no data on which to found a conjecture.""Do you mean to tell me, friend John, that you have no suspicion as towhat poor Lucy died of, not after all the hints given, not only byevents, but by me?""Of nervous prostration following a great loss or waste of blood.""And how was the blood lost or wasted?"  I shook my head.He stepped over and sat down beside me, and went on, "You are a cleverman, friend John.  You reason well, and your wit is bold, but you aretoo prejudiced.  You do not let your eyes see nor your ears hear, andthat which is outside your daily life is not of account to you.  Doyou not think that there are things which you cannot understand, andyet which are, that some people see things that others cannot?  Butthere are things old and new which must not be contemplated by men'seyes, because they know, or think they know, some things which othermen have told them.  Ah, it is the fault of our science that it wantsto explain all, and if it explain not, then it says there is nothingto explain.  But yet we see around us every day the growth of newbeliefs, which think themselves new, and which are yet but the old,which pretend to be young, like the fine ladies at the opera.  Isuppose now you do not believe in corporeal transference.  No?  Nor inmaterialization.  No?  Nor in astral bodies.  No?  Nor in the readingof thought.  No?  Nor in hypnotism . . .""Yes," I said.  "Charcot has proved that pretty well."He smiled as he went on, "Then you are satisfied as to it.  Yes?  Andof course then you understand how it act, and can follow the mind ofthe great Charcot, alas that he is no more, into the very soul of thepatient that he influence.  No?  Then, friend John, am I to take itthat you simply accept fact, and are satisfied to let from premise toconclusion be a blank?  No?  Then tell me, for I am a student of thebrain, how you accept hypnotism and reject the thought reading.  Letme tell you, my friend, that there are things done today in electricalscience which would have been deemed unholy by the very man whodiscovered electricity, who would themselves not so long before beenburned as wizards.  There are always mysteries in life.  Why was itthat Methuselah lived nine hundred years, and 'Old Parr' one hundredand sixty-nine, and yet that poor Lucy, with four men's blood in herpoor veins, could not live even one day?  For, had she live one moreday, we could save her.  Do you know all the mystery of life anddeath?  Do you know the altogether of comparative anatomy and can saywherefore the qualities of brutes are in some men, and not in others?Can you tell me why, when other spiders die small and soon, that onegreat spider lived for centuries in the tower of the old Spanishchurch and grew and grew, till, on descending, he could drink the oilof all the church lamps?  Can you tell me why in the Pampas, ay andelsewhere, there are bats that come out at night and open the veins ofcattle and horses and suck dry their veins, how in some islands of theWestern seas there are bats which hang on the trees all day, and thosewho have seen describe as like giant nuts or pods, and that when thesailors sleep on the deck, because that it is hot, flit down on themand then, and then in the morning are found dead men, white as evenMiss Lucy was?""Good God, Professor!" I said, starting up.  "Do you mean to tell methat Lucy was bitten by such a bat, and that such a thing is here inLondon in the nineteenth century?"He waved his hand for silence, and went on, "Can you tell me why thetortoise lives more long than generations of men, why the elephantgoes on and on till he have sees dynasties, and why the parrot neverdie only of bite of cat of dog or other complaint?  Can you tell mewhy men believe in all ages and places that there are men and womenwho cannot die?  We all know, because science has vouched for thefact, that there have been toads shut up in rocks for thousands ofyears, shut in one so small hole that only hold him since the youth ofthe world.  Can you tell me how the Indian fakir can make himself todie and have been buried, and his grave sealed and corn sowed on it,and the corn reaped and be cut and sown and reaped and cut again, andthen men come and take away the unbroken seal and that there lie theIndian fakir, not dead, but that rise up and walk amongst them asbefore?"Here I interrupted him.  I was getting bewildered.  He so crowded onmy mind his list of nature's eccentricities and possibleimpossibilities that my imagination was getting fired.  I had a dimidea that he was teaching me some lesson, as long ago he used to do inhis study at Amsterdam.  But he used them to tell me the thing, sothat I could have the object of thought in mind all the time.  But nowI was without his help, yet I wanted to follow him, so I said,"Professor, let me be your pet student again.  Tell me the thesis, sothat I may apply your knowledge as you go on.  At present I am goingin my mind from point to point as a madman, and not a sane one,follows an idea.  I feel like a novice lumbering through a bog in amidst, jumping from one tussock to another in the mere blind effort tomove on without knowing where I am going.""That is a good image," he said.  "Well, I shall tell you.  My thesisis this, I want you to believe.""To believe what?""To believe in things that you cannot.  Let me illustrate.  I heardonce of an American who so defined faith, 'that faculty which enablesus to believe things which we know to be untrue.'  For one, I followthat man.  He meant that we shall have an open mind, and not let alittle bit of truth check the rush of the big truth, like a small rockdoes a railway truck.  We get the small truth first.  Good!  We keephim, and we value him, but all the same we must not let him thinkhimself all the truth in the universe.""Then you want me not to let some previous conviction inure thereceptivity of my mind with regard to some strange matter.  Do I readyour lesson aright?""Ah, you are my favourite pupil still.  It is worth to teach you.  Nowthat you are willing to understand, you have taken the first step tounderstand.  You think then that those so small holes in thechildren's throats were made by the same that made the holes in MissLucy?""I suppose so."He stood up and said solemnly, "Then you are wrong.  Oh, would it wereso!  But alas!  No.  It is worse, far, far worse.""In God's name, Professor Van Helsing, what do you mean?" I cried.He threw himself with a despairing gesture into a chair, and placedhis elbows on the table, covering his face with his hands as he spoke."They were made by Miss Lucy!"CHAPTER 15DR. SEWARD'S DIARY--cont.For a while sheer anger mastered me.  It was as if he had during herlife struck Lucy on the face.  I smote the table hard and rose up as Isaid to him, "Dr. Van Helsing, are you mad?"He raised his head and looked at me, and somehow the tenderness of hisface calmed me at once.  "Would I were!" he said.  "Madness were easyto bear compared with truth like this.  Oh, my friend, why, thinkyou, did I go so far round, why take so long to tell so simple athing?  Was it because I hate you and have hated you all my life?  Wasit because I wished to give you pain?  Was it that I wanted, now solate, revenge for that time when you saved my life, and from a fearfuldeath?  Ah no!""Forgive me," said I.He went on, "My friend, it was because I wished to be gentle in thebreaking to you, for I know you have loved that so sweet lady.  Buteven yet I do not expect you to believe.  It is so hard to accept atonce any abstract truth, that we may doubt such to be possible when wehave always believed the 'no' of it.  It is more hard still to acceptso sad a concrete truth, and of such a one as Miss Lucy.  Tonight I goto prove it.  Dare you come with me?"This staggered me.  A man does not like to prove such a truth, Byronexcepted from the category, jealousy.    "And prove the very truth he most abhorred."He saw my hesitation, and spoke, "The logic is simple, no madman'slogic this time, jumping from tussock to tussock in a misty bog.  Ifit not be true, then proof will be relief.  At worst it will not harm.If it be true!  Ah, there is the dread.  Yet every dread should help mycause, for in it is some need of belief.  Come, I tell you what Ipropose.  First, that we go off now and see that child in thehospital.  Dr. Vincent, of the North Hospital, where the papers saythe child is, is a friend of mine, and I think of yours since you werein class at Amsterdam.  He will let two scientists see his case, if hewill not let two friends.  We shall tell him nothing, but only that wewish to learn.  And then . . .""And then?"He took a key from his pocket and held it up.  "And then we spend thenight, you and I, in the churchyard where Lucy lies.  This is the keythat lock the tomb.  I had it from the coffin man to give to Arthur."My heart sank within me, for I felt that there was some fearful ordealbefore us.  I could do nothing, however, so I plucked up what heart Icould and said that we had better hasten, as the afternoon waspassing.We found the child awake.  It had had a sleep and taken some food, andaltogether was going on well.  Dr. Vincent took the bandage from itsthroat, and showed us the punctures.  There was no mistaking thesimilarity to those which had been on Lucy's throat.  They weresmaller, and the edges looked fresher, that was all.  We asked Vincentto what he attributed them, and he replied that it must have been abite of some animal, perhaps a rat, but for his own part, he wasinclined to think it was one of the bats which are so numerous on thenorthern heights of London.  "Out of so many harmless ones," he said,"there may be some wild specimen from the South of a more malignantspecies.  Some sailor may have brought one home, and it managed toescape, or even from the Zoological Gardens a young one may have gotloose, or one be bred there from a vampire.  These things do occur,you, know.  Only ten days ago a wolf got out, and was, I believe,traced up in this direction.  For a week after, the children wereplaying nothing but Red Riding Hood on the Heath and in every alley inthe place until this 'bloofer lady' scare came along, since then ithas been quite a gala time with them.  Even this poor little mite,when he woke up today, asked the nurse if he might go away.  When sheasked him why he wanted to go, he said he wanted to play with the'bloofer lady'.""I hope," said Van Helsing, "that when you are sending the child homeyou will caution its parents to keep strict watch over it.  Thesefancies to stray are most dangerous, and if the child were to remainout another night, it would probably be fatal.  But in any case Isuppose you will not let it away for some days?""Certainly not, not for a week at least, longer if the wound is nothealed."Our visit to the hospital took more time than we had reckoned on, andthe sun had dipped before we came out.  When Van Helsing saw how darkit was, he said,"There is not hurry.  It is more late than I thought.  Come, let usseek somewhere that we may eat, and then we shall go on our way."We dined at 'Jack Straw's Castle' along with a little crowd ofbicyclists and others who were genially noisy.  About ten o'clock westarted from the inn.  It was then very dark, and the scattered lampsmade the darkness greater when we were once outside their individualradius.  The Professor had evidently noted the road we were to go, forhe went on unhesitatingly, but, as for me, I was in quite a mixup asto locality.  As we went further, we met fewer and fewer people, tillat last we were somewhat surprised when we met even the patrol ofhorse police going their usual suburban round.  At last we reached thewall of the churchyard, which we climbed over.  With some littledifficulty, for it was very dark, and the whole place seemed sostrange to us, we found the Westenra tomb.  The Professor took thekey, opened the creaky door, and standing back, politely, but quiteunconsciously, motioned me to precede him.  There was a deliciousirony in the offer, in the courtliness of giving preference on such aghastly occasion.  My companion followed me quickly, and cautiouslydrew the door to, after carefully ascertaining that the lock was afalling, and not a spring one.  In the latter case we should have beenin a bad plight.  Then he fumbled in his bag, and taking out amatchbox and a piece of candle, proceeded to make a light.  The tombin the daytime, and when wreathed with fresh flowers, had looked grimand gruesome enough, but now, some days afterwards, when the flowershung lank and dead, their whites turning to rust and their greens tobrowns, when the spider and the beetle had resumed their accustomeddominance, when the time-discoloured stone, and dust-encrusted mortar,and rusty, dank iron, and tarnished brass, and clouded silver-platinggave back the feeble glimmer of a candle, the effect was moremiserable and sordid than could have been imagined.  It conveyedirresistibly the idea that life, animal life, was not the only thingwhich could pass away.Van Helsing went about his work systematically.  Holding his candle sothat he could read the coffin plates, and so holding it that the spermdropped in white patches which congealed as they touched the metal, hemade assurance of Lucy's coffin.  Another search in his bag, and hetook out a turnscrew."What are you going to do?" I asked."To open the coffin.  You shall yet be convinced."Straightway he began taking out the screws, and finally lifted off thelid, showing the casing of lead beneath.  The sight was almost toomuch for me.  It seemed to be as much an affront to the dead as itwould have been to have stripped off her clothing in her sleep whilstliving.  I actually took hold of his hand to stop him.He only said, "You shall see," and again fumbling in his bag took outa tiny fret saw.  Striking the turnscrew through the lead with a swiftdownward stab, which made me wince, he made a small hole, which was,however, big enough to admit the point of the saw.  I had expected arush of gas from the week-old corpse.  We doctors, who have had tostudy our dangers, have to become accustomed to such things, and Idrew back towards the door.  But the Professor never stopped for amoment.  He sawed down a couple of feet along one side of the leadcoffin, and then across, and down the other side.  Taking the edge ofthe loose flange, he bent it back towards the foot of the coffin, andholding up the candle into the aperture, motioned to me to look.I drew near and looked.  The coffin was empty.  It was certainly asurprise to me, and gave me a considerable shock, but Van Helsing wasunmoved.  He was now more sure than ever of his ground, and soemboldened to proceed in his task.  "Are you satisfied now, friendJohn?" he asked.I felt all the dogged argumentativeness of my nature awake within me asI answered him, "I am satisfied that Lucy's body is not in thatcoffin, but that only proves one thing.""And what is that, friend John?""That it is not there.""That is good logic," he said, "so far as it goes.  But how do you,how can you, account for it not being there?""Perhaps a body-snatcher," I suggested.  "Some of the undertaker'speople may have stolen it."  I felt that I was speaking folly, and yetit was the only real cause which I could suggest.The Professor sighed.  "Ah well!" he said, "we must have more proof.Come with me."He put on the coffin lid again, gathered up all his things and placedthem in the bag, blew out the light, and placed the candle also in thebag.  We opened the door, and went out.  Behind us he closed the doorand locked it.  He handed me the key, saying, "Will you keep it?  Youhad better be assured."I laughed, it was not a very cheerful laugh, I am bound to say, as Imotioned him to keep it.  "A key is nothing," I said, "there are manyduplicates, and anyhow it is not difficult to pick a lock of thiskind."He said nothing, but put the key in his pocket.  Then he told me towatch at one side of the churchyard whilst he would watch at theother.I took up my place behind a yew tree, and I saw his dark figure moveuntil the intervening headstones and trees hid it from my sight.It was a lonely vigil.  Just after I had taken my place I heard adistant clock strike twelve, and in time came one and two.  I waschilled and unnerved, and angry with the Professor for taking me onsuch an errand and with myself for coming.  I was too cold and toosleepy to be keenly observant, and not sleepy enough to betray mytrust, so altogether I had a dreary, miserable time.Suddenly, as I turned round, I thought I saw something like a whitestreak, moving between two dark yew trees at the side of thechurchyard farthest from the tomb.  At the same time a dark mass movedfrom the Professor's side of the ground, and hurriedly went towardsit.  Then I too moved, but I had to go round headstones and railed-offtombs, and I stumbled over graves.  The sky was overcast, andsomewhere far off an early cock crew.  A little ways off, beyond aline of scattered juniper trees, which marked the pathway to thechurch, a white dim figure flitted in the direction of the tomb.  Thetomb itself was hidden by trees, and I could not see where the figurehad disappeared.  I heard the rustle of actual movement where I hadfirst seen the white figure, and coming over, found the Professorholding in his arms a tiny child.  When he saw me he held it out tome, and said, "Are you satisfied now?""No," I said, in a way that I felt was aggressive."Do you not see the child?""Yes, it is a child, but who brought it here?  And is it wounded?""We shall see," said the Professor, and with one impulse we took ourway out of the churchyard, he carrying the sleeping child.When we had got some little distance away, we went into a clump oftrees, and struck a match, and looked at the child's throat.  It waswithout a scratch or scar of any kind."Was I right?" I asked triumphantly."We were just in time," said the Professor thankfully.We had now to decide what we were to do with the child, and soconsulted about it.  If we were to take it to a police station weshould have to give some account of our movements during the night.At least, we should have had to make some statement as to how we hadcome to find the child.  So finally we decided that we would take itto the Heath, and when we heard a policeman coming, would leave itwhere he could not fail to find it.  We would then seek our way homeas quickly as we could.  All fell out well.  At the edge of HampsteadHeath we heard a policeman's heavy tramp, and laying the child on thepathway, we waited and watched until he saw it as he flashed hislantern to and fro.  We heard his exclamation of astonishment, andthen we went away silently.  By good chance we got a cab near the'Spainiards,' and drove to town.I cannot sleep, so I make this entry.  But I must try to get a fewhours' sleep, as Van Helsing is to call for me at noon.  He insiststhat I go with him on another expedition.27 September.--It was two o'clock before we found a suitableopportunity for our attempt.  The funeral held at noon was allcompleted, and the last stragglers of the mourners had takenthemselves lazily away, when, looking carefully from behind a clump ofalder trees, we saw the sexton lock the gate after him.  We knew thatwe were safe till morning did we desire it, but the Professor told methat we should not want more than an hour at most.  Again I felt thathorrid sense of the reality of things, in which any effort ofimagination seemed out of place, and I realized distinctly the perilsof the law which we were incurring in our unhallowed work.  Besides, Ifelt it was all so useless.  Outrageous as it was to open a leadencoffin, to see if a woman dead nearly a week were really dead, it nowseemed the height of folly to open the tomb again, when we knew, fromthe evidence of our own eyesight, that the coffin was empty.  Ishrugged my shoulders, however, and rested silent, for Van Helsing hada way of going on his own road, no matter who remonstrated.  He tookthe key, opened the vault, and again courteously motioned me toprecede.  The place was not so gruesome as last night, but oh, howunutterably mean looking when the sunshine streamed in.  Van Helsingwalked over to Lucy's coffin, and I followed.  He bent over and againforced back the leaden flange, and a shock of surprise and dismay shotthrough me.There lay Lucy, seemingly just as we had seen her the night before herfuneral.  She was, if possible, more radiantly beautiful than ever,and I could not believe that she was dead.  The lips were red, nayredder than before, and on the cheeks was a delicate bloom."Is this a juggle?" I said to him."Are you convinced now?" said the Professor, in response, and as hespoke he put over his hand, and in a way that made me shudder, pulledback the dead lips and showed the white teeth.  "See," he went on,"they are even sharper than before.  With this and this," and hetouched one of the canine teeth and that below it, "the littlechildren can be bitten.  Are you of belief now, friend John?"Once more argumentative hostility woke within me.  I could not acceptsuch an overwhelming idea as he suggested.  So, with an attempt toargue of which I was even at the moment ashamed, I said, "She may havebeen placed here since last night.""Indeed?  That is so, and by whom?""I do not know.  Someone has done it.""And yet she has been dead one week.  Most peoples in that time wouldnot look so."I had no answer for this, so was silent.  Van Helsing did not seem tonotice my silence.  At any rate, he showed neither chagrin nortriumph.  He was looking intently at the face of the dead woman,raising the eyelids and looking at the eyes, and once more opening thelips and examining the teeth.  Then he turned to me and said,"Here, there is one thing which is different from all recorded.  Hereis some dual life that is not as the common.  She was bitten by thevampire when she was in a trance, sleep-walking, oh, you start.  Youdo not know that, friend John, but you shall know it later, and intrance could he best come to take more blood.  In trance she dies, andin trance she is UnDead, too.  So it is that she differ from allother.  Usually when the UnDead sleep at home," as he spoke he made acomprehensive sweep of his arm to designate what to a vampire was'home', "their face show what they are, but this so sweet that waswhen she not UnDead she go back to the nothings of the common dead.There is no malign there, see, and so it make hard that I must killher in her sleep."This turned my blood cold, and it began to dawn upon me that I wasaccepting Van Helsing's theories.  But if she were really dead, whatwas there of terror in the idea of killing her?He looked up at me, and evidently saw the change in my face, for hesaid almost joyously, "Ah, you believe now?"I answered, "Do not press me too hard all at once.  I am willing toaccept.  How will you do this bloody work?""I shall cut off her head and fill her mouth with garlic, and I shalldrive a stake through her body."It made me shudder to think of so mutilating the body of the womanwhom I had loved.  And yet the feeling was not so strong as I hadexpected.  I was, in fact, beginning to shudder at the presence ofthis being, this UnDead, as Van Helsing called it, and to loathe it.Is it possible that love is all subjective, or all objective?I waited a considerable time for Van Helsing to begin, but he stood asif wrapped in thought.  Presently he closed the catch of his bag witha snap, and said,"I have been thinking, and have made up my mind as to what is best.If I did simply follow my inclining I would do now, at this moment,what is to be done.  But there are other things to follow, and thingsthat are thousand times more difficult in that them we do not know.This is simple.  She have yet no life taken, though that is of time,and to act now would be to take danger from her forever.  But then wemay have to want Arthur, and how shall we tell him of this?  If you,who saw the wounds on Lucy's throat, and saw the wounds so similar onthe child's at the hospital, if you, who saw the coffin empty lastnight and full today with a woman who have not change only to be morerose and more beautiful in a whole week, after she die, if you know ofthis and know of the white figure last night that brought the child tothe churchyard, and yet of your own senses you did not believe, howthen, can I expect Arthur, who know none of those things, to believe?"He doubted me when I took him from her kiss when she was dying.  Iknow he has forgiven me because in some mistaken idea I have donethings that prevent him say goodbye as he ought, and he may think thatin some more mistaken idea this woman was buried alive, and that inmost mistake of all we have killed her.  He will then argue back thatit is we, mistaken ones, that have killed her by our ideas, and so hewill be much unhappy always.  Yet he never can be sure, and that isthe worst of all.  And he will sometimes think that she he loved wasburied alive, and that will paint his dreams with horrors of what shemust have suffered, and again, he will think that we may be right, andthat his so beloved was, after all, an UnDead.  No!  I told him once,and since then I learn much.  Now, since I know it is all true, ahundred thousand times more do I know that he must pass through thebitter waters to reach the sweet.  He, poor fellow, must have one hourthat will make the very face of heaven grow black to him, then we canact for good all round and send him peace.  My mind is made up.  Letus go.  You return home for tonight to your asylum, and see that allbe well.  As for me, I shall spend the night here in this churchyardin my own way.  Tomorrow night you will come to me to the BerkeleyHotel at ten of the clock.  I shall send for Arthur to come too, andalso that so fine young man of America that gave his blood.  Later weshall all have work to do.  I come with you so far as Piccadilly andthere dine, for I must be back here before the sun set."So we locked the tomb and came away, and got over the wall of thechurchyard, which was not much of a task, and drove back toPiccadilly.NOTE LEFT BY VAN HELSING IN HIS PORTMANTEAU, BERKELEY HOTEL DIRECTED TOJOHN SEWARD, M. D. (Not Delivered)27 September"Friend John,"I write this in case anything should happen.  I go alone towatch in that churchyard.  It pleases me that the UnDead,Miss Lucy, shall not leave tonight, that so on the morrownight she may be more eager.  Therefore I shall fix somethings she like not, garlic and a crucifix, and so seal upthe door of the tomb.  She is young as UnDead, and willheed.  Moreover, these are only to prevent her coming out.They may not prevail on her wanting to get in, for then theUnDead is desperate, and must find the line of least resistance,whatsoever it may be.  I shall be at hand all the night fromsunset till after sunrise, and if there be aught that may belearned I shall learn it.  For Miss Lucy or from her, I have nofear, but that other to whom is there that she is UnDead, he havenot the power to seek her tomb and find shelter.  He is cunning,as I know from Mr. Jonathan and from the way that all along hehave fooled us when he played with us for Miss Lucy's life, andwe lost, and in many ways the UnDead are strong.  He have alwaysthe strength in his hand of twenty men, even we four who gave ourstrength to Miss Lucy it also is all to him.  Besides, he cansummon his wolf and I know not what.  So if it be that he camethither on this night he shall find me.  But none other shall,until it be too late.  But it may be that he will not attempt theplace.  There is no reason why he should.  His hunting ground ismore full of game than the churchyard where the UnDead womansleeps, and the one old man watch."Therefore I write this in case . . . Take the papers thatare with this, the diaries of Harker and the rest, and readthem, and then find this great UnDead, and cut off his headand burn his heart or drive a stake through it, so that theworld may rest from him."If it be so, farewell."VAN HELSING."DR. SEWARD'S DIARY28 September.--It is wonderful what a good night's sleep will do forone.  Yesterday I was almost willing to accept Van Helsing's monstrousideas, but now they seem to start out lurid before me as outrages oncommon sense.  I have no doubt that he believes it all.  I wonder ifhis mind can have become in any way unhinged.  Surely there must besome rational explanation of all these mysterious things.  Is itpossible that the Professor can have done it himself?  He is soabnormally clever that if he went off his head he would carry out hisintent with regard to some fixed idea in a wonderful way.  I am loatheto think it, and indeed it would be almost as great a marvel as theother to find that Van Helsing was mad, but anyhow I shall watch himcarefully.  I may get some light on the mystery.29 September.--Last night, at a little before ten o'clock, Arthur andQuincey came into Van Helsing's room.  He told us all what he wantedus to do, but especially addressing himself to Arthur, as if all ourwills were centred in his.  He began by saying that he hoped we wouldall come with him too, "for," he said, "there is a grave duty to bedone there.  You were doubtless surprised at my letter?"  This querywas directly addressed to Lord Godalming."I was.  It rather upset me for a bit.  There has been so much troublearound my house of late that I could do without any more.  I have beencurious, too, as to what you mean."Quincey and I talked it over, but the more we talked, the morepuzzled we got, till now I can say for myself that I'm about up a treeas to any meaning about anything.""Me too," said Quincey Morris laconically."Oh," said the Professor, "then you are nearer the beginning, both ofyou, than friend John here, who has to go a long way back before hecan even get so far as to begin."It was evident that he recognized my return to my old doubting frameof mind without my saying a word.  Then, turning to the other two, hesaid with intense gravity,"I want your permission to do what I think good this night.  It is, Iknow, much to ask, and when you know what it is I propose to do youwill know, and only then how much.  Therefore may I ask that youpromise me in the dark, so that afterwards, though you may be angrywith me for a time, I must not disguise from myself the possibilitythat such may be, you shall not blame yourselves for anything.""That's frank anyhow," broke in Quincey.  "I'll answer for theProfessor.  I don't quite see his drift, but I swear he's honest, andthat's good enough for me.""I thank you, Sir," said Van Helsing proudly.  "I have done myself thehonour of counting you one trusting friend, and such endorsement isdear to me."  He held out a hand, which Quincey took.Then Arthur spoke out, "Dr. Van Helsing, I don't quite like to 'buy apig in a poke', as they say in Scotland, and if it be anything inwhich my honour as a gentleman or my faith as a Christian isconcerned, I cannot make such a promise.  If you can assure me thatwhat you intend does not violate either of these two, then I give myconsent at once, though for the life of me, I cannot understand whatyou are driving at.""I accept your limitation," said Van Helsing, "and all I ask of you isthat if you feel it necessary to condemn any act of mine, you willfirst consider it well and be satisfied that it does not violate yourreservations.""Agreed!" said Arthur.  "That is only fair.  And now that thepourparlers are over, may I ask what it is we are to do?""I want you to come with me, and to come in secret, to the churchyardat Kingstead."Arthur's face fell as he said in an amazed sort of way,"Where poor Lucy is buried?"The Professor bowed.Arthur went on, "And when there?""To enter the tomb!"Arthur stood up.  "Professor, are you in earnest, or is it somemonstrous joke?  Pardon me, I see that you are in earnest."  He satdown again, but I could see that he sat firmly and proudly, as one whois on his dignity.  There was silence until he asked again, "And whenin the tomb?""To open the coffin.""This is too much!" he said, angrily rising again.  "I am willing tobe patient in all things that are reasonable, but in this, thisdesecration of the grave, of one who . . ."  He fairly choked withindignation.The Professor looked pityingly at him.  "If I could spare you one pang,my poor friend," he said, "God knows I would.  But this night our feetmust tread in thorny paths, or later, and for ever, the feet you lovemust walk in paths of flame!"Arthur looked up with set white face and said, "Take care, sir, takecare!""Would it not be well to hear what I have to say?" said Van Helsing."And then you will at least know the limit of my purpose.  Shall I goon?""That's fair enough," broke in Morris.After a pause Van Helsing went on, evidently with an effort, "MissLucy is dead, is it not so?  Yes!  Then there can be no wrong to her.But if she be not dead . . ."Arthur jumped to his feet, "Good God!" he cried.  "What do you mean?Has there been any mistake, has she been buried alive?"  He groaned inanguish that not even hope could soften."I did not say she was alive, my child.  I did not think it.  I go nofurther than to say that she might be UnDead.""UnDead!  Not alive!  What do you mean?  Is this all a nightmare, orwhat is it?""There are mysteries which men can only guess at, which age by agethey may solve only in part.  Believe me, we are now on the verge ofone.  But I have not done.  May I cut off the head of dead Miss Lucy?""Heavens and earth, no!" cried Arthur in a storm of passion.  "Not forthe wide world will I consent to any mutilation of her dead body.  Dr.Van Helsing, you try me too far.  What have I done to you that youshould torture me so?  What did that poor, sweet girl do that youshould want to cast such dishonour on her grave?  Are you mad, that youspeak of such things, or am I mad to listen to them?  Don't dare thinkmore of such a desecration.  I shall not give my consent to anythingyou do.  I have a duty to do in protecting her grave from outrage, andby God, I shall do it!"Van Helsing rose up from where he had all the time been seated, andsaid, gravely and sternly, "My Lord Godalming, I too, have a duty todo, a duty to others, a duty to you, a duty to the dead, and by God, Ishall do it!  All I ask you now is that you come with me, that youlook and listen, and if when later I make the same request you do notbe more eager for its fulfillment even than I am, then, I shall do myduty, whatever it may seem to me.  And then, to follow your Lordship'swishes I shall hold myself at your disposal to render an account toyou, when and where you will."  His voice broke a little, and he wenton with a voice full of pity."But I beseech you, do not go forth in anger with me.  In a long lifeof acts which were often not pleasant to do, and which sometimes didwring my heart, I have never had so heavy a task as now.  Believe methat if the time comes for you to change your mind towards me, onelook from you will wipe away all this so sad hour, for I would do whata man can to save you from sorrow.  Just think.  For why should I givemyself so much labor and so much of sorrow?  I have come here from myown land to do what I can of good, at the first to please my friendJohn, and then to help a sweet young lady, whom too, I come to love.For her, I am ashamed to say so much, but I say it in kindness, I gavewhat you gave, the blood of my veins.  I gave it, I who was not, likeyou, her lover, but only her physician and her friend.  I gave her mynights and days, before death, after death, and if my death can do hergood even now, when she is the dead UnDead, she shall have it freely."He said this with a very grave, sweet pride, and Arthur was muchaffected by it.He took the old man's hand and said in a broken voice, "Oh, it is hardto think of it, and I cannot understand, but at least I shall go withyou and wait."CHAPTER 16DR. SEWARD'S DIARY--cont.It was just a quarter before twelve o'clock when we got into thechurchyard over the low wall.  The night was dark with occasionalgleams of moonlight between the dents of the heavy clouds that scuddedacross the sky.  We all kept somehow close together, with Van Helsingslightly in front as he led the way.  When we had come close to thetomb I looked well at Arthur, for I feared the proximity to a placeladen with so sorrowful a memory would upset him, but he bore himselfwell.  I took it that the very mystery of the proceeding was in someway a counteractant to his grief.  The Professor unlocked the door,and seeing a natural hesitation amongst us for various reasons, solvedthe difficulty by entering first himself.  The rest of us followed,and he closed the door.  He then lit a dark lantern and pointed to acoffin.  Arthur stepped forward hesitatingly.  Van Helsing said to me,"You were with me here yesterday.  Was the body of Miss Lucy in thatcoffin?""It was."The Professor turned to the rest saying, "You hear, and yet there isno one who does not believe with me."He took his screwdriver and again took off the lid of the coffin.Arthur looked on, very pale but silent.  When the lid was removed hestepped forward.  He evidently did not know that there was a leadencoffin, or at any rate, had not thought of it.  When he saw the rentin the lead, the blood rushed to his face for an instant, but asquickly fell away again, so that he remained of a ghastly whiteness.He was still silent.  Van Helsing forced back the leaden flange, andwe all looked in and recoiled.The coffin was empty!For several minutes no one spoke a word.  The silence was broken byQuincey Morris, "Professor, I answered for you.  Your word is all Iwant.  I wouldn't ask such a thing ordinarily, I wouldn't so dishonouryou as to imply a doubt, but this is a mystery that goes beyond anyhonour or dishonour.  Is this your doing?""I swear to you by all that I hold sacred that I have not removed ortouched her.  What happened was this.  Two nights ago my friend Sewardand I came here, with good purpose, believe me.  I opened that coffin,which was then sealed up, and we found it as now, empty.  We thenwaited, and saw something white come through the trees.  The next daywe came here in daytime and she lay there.  Did she not, friend John?"Yes.""That night we were just in time.  One more so small child wasmissing, and we find it, thank God, unharmed amongst the graves.Yesterday I came here before sundown, for at sundown the UnDead canmove.  I waited here all night till the sun rose, but I saw nothing.It was most probable that it was because I had laid over the clamps ofthose doors garlic, which the UnDead cannot bear, and other thingswhich they shun.  Last night there was no exodus, so tonight beforethe sundown I took away my garlic and other things.  And so it is wefind this coffin empty.  But bear with me.  So far there is much thatis strange.  Wait you with me outside, unseen and unheard, and thingsmuch stranger are yet to be.  So," here he shut the dark slide of hislantern, "now to the outside."  He opened the door, and we filed out,he coming last and locking the door behind him.Oh!  But it seemed fresh and pure in the night air after the terror ofthat vault.  How sweet it was to see the clouds race by, and thepassing gleams of the moonlight between the scudding clouds crossingand passing, like the gladness and sorrow of a man's life.  How sweetit was to breathe the fresh air, that had no taint of death and decay.How humanizing to see the red lighting of the sky beyond the hill, andto hear far away the muffled roar that marks the life of a greatcity.  Each in his own way was solemn and overcome.  Arthur wassilent, and was, I could see, striving to grasp the purpose and theinner meaning of the mystery.  I was myself tolerably patient, andhalf inclined again to throw aside doubt and to accept Van Helsing'sconclusions.  Quincey Morris was phlegmatic in the way of a man whoaccepts all things, and accepts them in the spirit of cool bravery,with hazard of all he has at stake.  Not being able to smoke, he cuthimself a good-sized plug of tobacco and began to chew.  As to VanHelsing, he was employed in a definite way.  First he took from hisbag a mass of what looked like thin, wafer-like biscuit, which wascarefully rolled up in a white napkin.  Next he took out a doublehandful of some whitish stuff, like dough or putty.  He crumbled thewafer up fine and worked it into the mass between his hands.  This hethen took, and rolling it into thin strips, began to lay them into thecrevices between the door and its setting in the tomb.  I was somewhatpuzzled at this, and being close, asked him what it was that he wasdoing.  Arthur and Quincey drew near also, as they too were curious.He answered, "I am closing the tomb so that the UnDead may not enter.""And is that stuff you have there going to do it?""It is.""What is that which you are using?"  This time the question was byArthur.  Van Helsing reverently lifted his hat as he answered."The Host.  I brought it from Amsterdam.  I have an Indulgence."It was an answer that appalled the most sceptical of us, and we feltindividually that in the presence of such earnest purpose as theProfessor's, a purpose which could thus use the to him most sacred ofthings, it was impossible to distrust.  In respectful silence we tookthe places assigned to us close round the tomb, but hidden from thesight of any one approaching.  I pitied the others, especially Arthur.I had myself been apprenticed by my former visits to this watchinghorror, and yet I, who had up to an hour ago repudiated the proofs,felt my heart sink within me.  Never did tombs look so ghastly white.Never did cypress, or yew, or juniper so seem the embodiment offuneral gloom.  Never did tree or grass wave or rustle so ominously.Never did bough creak so mysteriously, and never did the far-awayhowling of dogs send such a woeful presage through the night.There was a long spell of silence, big, aching, void, and then fromthe Professor a keen "S-s-s-s!"  He pointed, and far down the avenue ofyews we saw a white figure advance, a dim white figure, which heldsomething dark at its breast.  The figure stopped, and at the moment aray of moonlight fell upon the masses of driving clouds, and showed instartling prominence a dark-haired woman, dressed in the cerements ofthe grave.  We could not see the face, for it was bent down over whatwe saw to be a fair-haired child.  There was a pause and a sharplittle cry, such as a child gives in sleep, or a dog as it lies beforethe fire and dreams.  We were starting forward, but the Professor'swarning hand, seen by us as he stood behind a yew tree, kept us back.And then as we looked the white figure moved forwards again.  It wasnow near enough for us to see clearly, and the moonlight still held.My own heart grew cold as ice, and I could hear the gasp of Arthur, aswe recognized the features of Lucy Westenra.  Lucy Westenra, but yethow changed.  The sweetness was turned to adamantine, heartlesscruelty, and the purity to voluptuous wantonness.Van Helsing stepped out, and obedient to his gesture, we all advancedtoo.  The four of us ranged in a line before the door of the tomb.  VanHelsing raised his lantern and drew the slide.  By the concentratedlight that fell on Lucy's face we could see that the lips were crimsonwith fresh blood, and that the stream had trickled over her chin andstained the purity of her lawn death-robe.We shuddered with horror.  I could see by the tremulous light thateven Van Helsing's iron nerve had failed.  Arthur was next to me, andif I had not seized his arm and held him up, he would have fallen.When Lucy, I call the thing that was before us Lucy because it boreher shape, saw us she drew back with an angry snarl, such as a catgives when taken unawares, then her eyes ranged over us.  Lucy's eyesin form and colour, but Lucy's eyes unclean and full of hell fire,instead of the pure, gentle orbs we knew.  At that moment the remnantof my love passed into hate and loathing.  Had she then to be killed,I could have done it with savage delight.  As she looked, her eyesblazed with unholy light, and the face became wreathed with avoluptuous smile.  Oh, God, how it made me shudder to see it!  With acareless motion, she flung to the ground, callous as a devil, thechild that up to now she had clutched strenuously to her breast,growling over it as a dog growls over a bone.  The child gave a sharpcry, and lay there moaning.  There was a cold-bloodedness in the actwhich wrung a groan from Arthur.  When she advanced to him withoutstretched arms and a wanton smile he fell back and hid his face inhis hands.She still advanced, however, and with a languorous, voluptuous grace,said, "Come to me, Arthur.  Leave these others and come to me.  Myarms are hungry for you.  Come, and we can rest together.  Come, myhusband, come!"There was something diabolically sweet in her tones, something of thetinkling of glass when struck, which rang through the brains even ofus who heard the words addressed to another.As for Arthur, he seemed under a spell, moving his hands from hisface, he opened wide his arms.  She was leaping for them, when VanHelsing sprang forward and held between them his little goldencrucifix.  She recoiled from it, and, with a suddenly distorted face,full of rage, dashed past him as if to enter the tomb.When within a foot or two of the door, however, she stopped, as ifarrested by some irresistible force.  Then she turned, and her facewas shown in the clear burst of moonlight and by the lamp, which hadnow no quiver from Van Helsing's nerves.  Never did I see such baffledmalice on a face, and never, I trust, shall such ever be seen again bymortal eyes.  The beautiful colour became livid, the eyes seemed tothrow out sparks of hell fire, the brows were wrinkled as though thefolds of flesh were the coils of Medusa's snakes, and the lovely,blood-stained mouth grew to an open square, as in the passion masks ofthe Greeks and Japanese.  If ever a face meant death, if looks couldkill, we saw it at that moment.And so for full half a minute, which seemed an eternity, she remainedbetween the lifted crucifix and the sacred closing of her means ofentry.Van Helsing broke the silence by asking Arthur, "Answer me, oh myfriend!  Am I to proceed in my work?""Do as you will, friend.  Do as you will.  There can be no horror likethis ever any more."  And he groaned in spirit.Quincey and I simultaneously moved towards him, and took his arms.  Wecould hear the click of the closing lantern as Van Helsing held itdown.  Coming close to the tomb, he began to remove from the chinkssome of the sacred emblem which he had placed there.  We all looked onwith horrified amazement as we saw, when he stood back, the woman,with a corporeal body as real at that moment as our own, pass throughthe interstice where scarce a knife blade could have gone.  We allfelt a glad sense of relief when we saw the Professor calmly restoringthe strings of putty to the edges of the door.When this was done, he lifted the child and said, "Come now, myfriends.  We can do no more till tomorrow.  There is a funeral atnoon, so here we shall all come before long after that.  The friendsof the dead will all be gone by two, and when the sexton locks thegate we shall remain.  Then there is more to do, but not like this oftonight.  As for this little one, he is not much harmed, and bytomorrow night he shall be well.  We shall leave him where the policewill find him, as on the other night, and then to home."Coming close to Arthur, he said, "My friend Arthur, you have had a soretrial, but after, when you look back, you will see how it wasnecessary.  You are now in the bitter waters, my child.  By this timetomorrow you will, please God, have passed them, and have drunk of thesweet waters.  So do not mourn over-much.  Till then I shall not askyou to forgive me."Arthur and Quincey came home with me, and we tried to cheer each otheron the way.  We had left behind the child in safety, and were tired.So we all slept with more or less reality of sleep.29 September, night.--A little before twelve o'clock we three, Arthur,Quincey Morris, and myself, called for the Professor.  It was odd tonotice that by common consent we had all put on black clothes.  Ofcourse, Arthur wore black, for he was in deep mourning, but the restof us wore it by instinct.  We got to the graveyard by half-past one,and strolled about, keeping out of official observation, so that whenthe gravediggers had completed their task and the sexton, under thebelief that every one had gone, had locked the gate, we had the placeall to ourselves.  Van Helsing, instead of his little black bag, hadwith him a long leather one, something like a cricketing bag.  It wasmanifestly of fair weight.When we were alone and had heard the last of the footsteps die out upthe road, we silently, and as if by ordered intention, followed theProfessor to the tomb.  He unlocked the door, and we entered, closingit behind us.  Then he took from his bag the lantern, which he lit,and also two wax candles, which, when lighted, he stuck by meltingtheir own ends, on other coffins, so that they might give lightsufficient to work by.  When he again lifted the lid off Lucy's coffinwe all looked, Arthur trembling like an aspen, and saw that the corpselay there in all its death beauty.  But there was no love in my ownheart, nothing but loathing for the foul Thing which had taken Lucy'sshape without her soul.  I could see even Arthur's face grow hard ashe looked.  Presently he said to Van Helsing, "Is this really Lucy'sbody, or only a demon in her shape?""It is her body, and yet not it.  But wait a while, and you shall seeher as she was, and is."She seemed like a nightmare of Lucy as she lay there, the pointedteeth, the blood stained, voluptuous mouth, which made one shudder tosee, the whole carnal and unspirited appearance, seeming like adevilish mockery of Lucy's sweet purity.  Van Helsing, with his usualmethodicalness, began taking the various contents from his bag andplacing them ready for use.  First he took out a soldering iron andsome plumbing solder, and then small oil lamp, which gave out, whenlit in a corner of the tomb, gas which burned at a fierce heat with ablue flame, then his operating knives, which he placed to hand, andlast a round wooden stake, some two and a half or three inches thickand about three feet long.  One end of it was hardened by charring inthe fire, and was sharpened to a fine point.  With this stake came aheavy hammer, such as in households is used in the coal cellar forbreaking the lumps.  To me, a doctor's preparations for work of anykind are stimulating and bracing, but the effect of these things onboth Arthur and Quincey was to cause them a sort of consternation.They both, however, kept their courage, and remained silent and quiet.When all was ready, Van Helsing said, "Before we do anything, let metell you this.  It is out of the lore and experience of the ancientsand of all those who have studied the powers of the UnDead.  When theybecome such, there comes with the change the curse of immortality.They cannot die, but must go on age after age adding new victims andmultiplying the evils of the world.  For all that die from the preyingof the Undead become themselves Undead, and prey on their kind.  Andso the circle goes on ever widening, like as the ripples from a stonethrown in the water.  Friend Arthur, if you had met that kiss whichyou know of before poor Lucy die, or again, last night when you openyour arms to her, you would in time, when you had died, have becomenosferatu, as they call it in Eastern Europe, and would for all timemake more of those Un-Deads that so have filled us with horror.  Thecareer of this so unhappy dear lady is but just begun.  Those childrenwhose blood she sucked are not as yet so much the worse, but if shelives on, UnDead, more and more they lose their blood and by her powerover them they come to her, and so she draw their blood with that sowicked mouth.  But if she die in truth, then all cease.  The tinywounds of the throats disappear, and they go back to their playunknowing ever of what has been.  But of the most blessed of all, whenthis now UnDead be made to rest as true dead, then the soul of thepoor lady whom we love shall again be free.  Instead of workingwickedness by night and growing more debased in the assimilating of itby day, she shall take her place with the other Angels.  So that, myfriend, it will be a blessed hand for her that shall strike the blowthat sets her free.  To this I am willing, but is there none amongstus who has a better right?  Will it be no joy to think of hereafter inthe silence of the night when sleep is not, 'It was my hand that senther to the stars.  It was the hand of him that loved her best, thehand that of all she would herself have chosen, had it been to her tochoose?'  Tell me if there be such a one amongst us?"We all looked at Arthur.  He saw too, what we all did, the infinitekindness which suggested that his should be the hand which wouldrestore Lucy to us as a holy, and not an unholy, memory.  He steppedforward and said bravely, though his hand trembled, and his face wasas pale as snow, "My true friend, from the bottom of my broken heart Ithank you.  Tell me what I am to do, and I shall not falter!"Van Helsing laid a hand on his shoulder, and said, "Brave lad!  Amoment's courage, and it is done.  This stake must be driven throughher.  It well be a fearful ordeal, be not deceived in that, but itwill be only a short time, and you will then rejoice more than yourpain was great.  From this grim tomb you will emerge as though youtread on air.  But you must not falter when once you have begun.  Onlythink that we, your true friends, are round you, and that we pray foryou all the time.""Go on," said Arthur hoarsely.  "Tell me what I am to do.""Take this stake in your left hand, ready to place to the point overthe heart, and the hammer in your right.  Then when we begin ourprayer for the dead, I shall read him, I have here the book, and theothers shall follow, strike in God's name, that so all may be wellwith the dead that we love and that the UnDead pass away."Arthur took the stake and the hammer, and when once his mind was seton action his hands never trembled nor even quivered.  Van Helsingopened his missal and began to read, and Quincey and I followed aswell as we could.Arthur placed the point over the heart, and as I looked I could see itsdint in the white flesh.  Then he struck with all his might.The thing in the coffin writhed, and a hideous, blood-curdling screechcame from the opened red lips.  The body shook and quivered andtwisted in wild contortions.  The sharp white teeth champed together tillthe lips were cut, and the mouth was smeared with a crimson foam.  ButArthur never faltered.  He looked like a figure of Thor as hisuntrembling arm rose and fell, driving deeper and deeper themercy-bearing stake, whilst the blood from the pierced heart welledand spurted up around it.  His face was set, and high duty seemed toshine through it.  The sight of it gave us courage so that our voicesseemed to ring through the little vault.And then the writhing and quivering of the body became less, and theteeth seemed to champ, and the face to quiver.  Finally it lay still.The terrible task was over.The hammer fell from Arthur's hand.  He reeled and would have fallenhad we not caught him.  The great drops of sweat sprang from hisforehead, and his breath came in broken gasps.  It had indeed been anawful strain on him, and had he not been forced to his task by morethan human considerations he could never have gone through with it.For a few minutes we were so taken up with him that we did not looktowards the coffin.  When we did, however, a murmur of startledsurprise ran from one to the other of us.  We gazed so eagerly thatArthur rose, for he had been seated on the ground, and came and lookedtoo, and then a glad strange light broke over his face and dispelledaltogether the gloom of horror that lay upon it.There, in the coffin lay no longer the foul Thing that we had sodreaded and grown to hate that the work of her destruction was yieldedas a privilege to the one best entitled to it, but Lucy as we had seenher in life, with her face of unequalled sweetness and purity.  Truethat there were there, as we had seen them in life, the traces of careand pain and waste.  But these were all dear to us, for they markedher truth to what we knew.  One and all we felt that the holy calmthat lay like sunshine over the wasted face and form was only anearthly token and symbol of the calm that was to reign for ever.Van Helsing came and laid his hand on Arthur's shoulder, and said tohim, "And now, Arthur my friend, dear lad, am I not forgiven?"The reaction of the terrible strain came as he took the old man's handin his, and raising it to his lips, pressed it, and said, "Forgiven!God bless you that you have given my dear one her soul again, and mepeace."  He put his hands on the Professor's shoulder, and laying hishead on his breast, cried for a while silently, whilst we stoodunmoving.When he raised his head Van Helsing said to him, "And now, my child,you may kiss her.  Kiss her dead lips if you will, as she would haveyou to, if for her to choose.  For she is not a grinning devil now,not any more a foul Thing for all eternity.  No longer she is thedevil's UnDead.  She is God's true dead, whose soul is with Him!"Arthur bent and kissed her, and then we sent him and Quincey out of thetomb.  The Professor and I sawed the top off the stake, leaving thepoint of it in the body.  Then we cut off the head and filled themouth with garlic.  We soldered up the leaden coffin, screwed on thecoffin lid, and gathering up our belongings, came away.  When theProfessor locked the door he gave the key to Arthur.Outside the air was sweet, the sun shone, and the birds sang, and itseemed as if all nature were tuned to a different pitch.  There wasgladness and mirth and peace everywhere, for we were at rest ourselveson one account, and we were glad, though it was with a tempered joy.Before we moved away Van Helsing said, "Now, my friends, one step ofour work is done, one the most harrowing to ourselves.  But thereremains a greater task: to find out the author of all this our sorrowand to stamp him out.  I have clues which we can follow, but it is along task, and a difficult one, and there is danger in it, and pain.Shall you not all help me?  We have learned to believe, all of us, isit not so?  And since so, do we not see our duty?  Yes!  And do we notpromise to go on to the bitter end?"Each in turn, we took his hand, and the promise was made.  Then saidthe Professor as we moved off, "Two nights hence you shall meet withme and dine together at seven of the clock with friend John.  I shallentreat two others, two that you know not as yet, and I shall be readyto all our work show and our plans unfold.  Friend John, you come withme home, for I have much to consult you about, and you can help me.Tonight I leave for Amsterdam, but shall return tomorrow night.  Andthen begins our great quest.  But first I shall have much to say, sothat you may know what to do and to dread.  Then our promise shall bemade to each other anew.  For there is a terrible task before us, andonce our feet are on the ploughshare we must not draw back."CHAPTER 17DR. SEWARD'S DIARY--cont.When we arrived at the Berkely Hotel, Van Helsing found a telegramwaiting for him."Am coming up by train.  Jonathan at Whitby.  Important news.  MinaHarker."The Professor was delighted.  "Ah, that wonderful Madam Mina," hesaid, "pearl among women!  She arrive, but I cannot stay.  She must goto your house, friend John.  You must meet her at the station.Telegraph her en route so that she may be prepared."When the wire was dispatched he had a cup of tea.  Over it he told meof a diary kept by Jonathan Harker when abroad, and gave me atypewritten copy of it, as also of Mrs. Harker's diary at Whitby."Take these," he said, "and study them well.  When I have returned youwill be master of all the facts, and we can then better enter on ourinquisition.  Keep them safe, for there is in them much of treasure.You will need all your faith, even you who have had such an experienceas that of today.  What is here told," he laid his hand heavily andgravely on the packet of papers as he spoke, "may be the beginning ofthe end to you and me and many another, or it may sound the knell ofthe UnDead who walk the earth.  Read all, I pray you, with the openmind, and if you can add in any way to the story here told do so, forit is all important.  You have kept a diary of all these so strangethings, is it not so?  Yes!  Then we shall go through all thesetogether when we meet."  He then made ready for his departure andshortly drove off to Liverpool Street.  I took my way to Paddington,where I arrived about fifteen minutes before the train came in.The crowd melted away, after the bustling fashion common to arrivalplatforms, and I was beginning to feel uneasy, lest I might miss myguest, when a sweet-faced, dainty looking girl stepped up to me, andafter a quick glance said, "Dr. Seward, is it not?""And you are Mrs. Harker!" I answered at once, whereupon she held outher hand."I knew you from the description of poor dear Lucy, but . . ."  Shestopped suddenly, and a quick blush overspread her face.The blush that rose to my own cheeks somehow set us both at ease, forit was a tacit answer to her own.  I got her luggage, which included atypewriter, and we took the Underground to Fenchurch Street, after Ihad sent a wire to my housekeeper to have a sitting room and a bedroomprepared at once for Mrs. Harker.In due time we arrived.  She knew, of course, that the place was alunatic asylum, but I could see that she was unable to repress ashudder when we entered.She told me that, if she might, she would come presently to my study,as she had much to say.  So here I am finishing my entry in myphonograph diary whilst I await her.  As yet I have not had the chanceof looking at the papers which Van Helsing left with me, though theylie open before me.  I must get her interested in something, so that Imay have an opportunity of reading them.  She does not know howprecious time is, or what a task we have in hand.  I must be carefulnot to frighten her.  Here she is!MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL29 September.--After I had tidied myself, I went down to Dr. Seward'sstudy.  At the door I paused a moment, for I thought I heard himtalking with some one.  As, however, he had pressed me to be quick, Iknocked at the door, and on his calling out, "Come in," I entered.To my intense surprise, there was no one with him.  He was quitealone, and on the table opposite him was what I knew at once from thedescription to be a phonograph.  I had never seen one, and was muchinterested."I hope I did not keep you waiting," I said, "but I stayed at the dooras I heard you talking, and thought there was someone with you.""Oh," he replied with a smile, "I was only entering my diary.""Your diary?" I asked him in surprise."Yes," he answered.  "I keep it in this."  As he spoke he laid hishand on the phonograph.  I felt quite excited over it, and blurtedout, "Why, this beats even shorthand!  May I hear it say something?""Certainly," he replied with alacrity, and stood up to put it in trainfor speaking.  Then he paused, and a troubled look overspread hisface."The fact is," he began awkwardly, "I only keep my diary in it, and asit is entirely, almost entirely, about my cases it may be awkward,that is, I mean . . ."  He stopped, and I tried to help him out of hisembarrassment."You helped to attend dear Lucy at the end.  Let me hear how she died,for all that I know of her, I shall be very grateful.  She was very,very dear to me."To my surprise, he answered, with a horrorstruck look in his face,"Tell you of her death?  Not for the wide world!""Why not?" I asked, for some grave, terrible feeling was coming over me.Again he paused, and I could see that he was trying to invent anexcuse.  At length, he stammered out, "You see, I do not know how topick out any particular part of the diary."Even while he was speaking an idea dawned upon him, and he said withunconscious simplicity, in a different voice, and with the naivete ofa child, "that's quite true, upon my honour.  Honest Indian!"I could not but smile, at which he grimaced.  "I gave myself away thattime!" he said.  "But do you know that, although I have kept the diaryfor months past, it never once struck me how I was going to find anyparticular part of it in case I wanted to look it up?"By this time my mind was made up that the diary of a doctor whoattended Lucy might have something to add to the sum of our knowledgeof that terrible Being, and I said boldly, "Then, Dr. Seward, you hadbetter let me copy it out for you on my typewriter."He grew to a positively deathly pallor as he said, "No!  No!  No!  Forall the world.  I wouldn't let you know that terrible story!"Then it was terrible.  My intuition was right!  For a moment, Ithought, and as my eyes ranged the room, unconsciously looking forsomething or some opportunity to aid me, they lit on a great batch oftypewriting on the table.  His eyes caught the look in mine, andwithout his thinking, followed their direction.  As they saw theparcel he realized my meaning."You do not know me," I said.  "When you have read those papers, myown diary and my husband's also, which I have typed, you will know mebetter.  I have not faltered in giving every thought of my own heartin this cause.  But, of course, you do not know me, yet, and I mustnot expect you to trust me so far."He is certainly a man of noble nature.  Poor dear Lucy was right abouthim.  He stood up and opened a large drawer, in which were arranged inorder a number of hollow cylinders of metal covered with dark wax, andsaid,"You are quite right.  I did not trust you because I did not knowyou.  But I know you now, and let me say that I should have known youlong ago.  I know that Lucy told you of me.  She told me of you too.May I make the only atonement in my power?  Take the cylinders andhear them.  The first half-dozen of them are personal to me, and theywill not horrify you.  Then you will know me better.  Dinner will bythen be ready.  In the meantime I shall read over some of thesedocuments, and shall be better able to understand certain things."He carried the phonograph himself up to my sitting room and adjustedit for me.  Now I shall learn something pleasant, I am sure.  For itwill tell me the other side of a true love episode of which I know oneside already.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY29 September.--I was so absorbed in that wonderful diary of JonathanHarker and that other of his wife that I let the time run on withoutthinking.  Mrs. Harker was not down when the maid came to announcedinner, so I said, "She is possibly tired.  Let dinner wait an hour,"and I went on with my work.  I had just finished Mrs. Harker's diary,when she came in.  She looked sweetly pretty, but very sad, and hereyes were flushed with crying.  This somehow moved me much.  Of late Ihave had cause for tears, God knows!  But the relief of them wasdenied me, and now the sight of those sweet eyes, brightened by recenttears, went straight to my heart.  So I said as gently as I could, "Igreatly fear I have distressed you.""Oh, no, not distressed me," she replied.  "But I have been moretouched than I can say by your grief.  That is a wonderful machine,but it is cruelly true.  It told me, in its very tones, the anguish ofyour heart.  It was like a soul crying out to Almighty God.  No onemust hear them spoken ever again!  See, I have tried to be useful.  Ihave copied out the words on my typewriter, and none other need nowhear your heart beat, as I did.""No one need ever know, shall ever know," I said in a low voice.  Shelaid her hand on mine and said very gravely, "Ah, but they must!""Must!  But why?" I asked."Because it is a part of the terrible story, a part of poor Lucy'sdeath and all that led to it.  Because in the struggle which we havebefore us to rid the earth of this terrible monster we must have allthe knowledge and all the help which we can get.  I think that thecylinders which you gave me contained more than you intended me toknow.  But I can see that there are in your record many lights to thisdark mystery.  You will let me help, will you not?  I know all up to acertain point, and I see already, though your diary only took me to 7September, how poor Lucy was beset, and how her terrible doom wasbeing wrought out.  Jonathan and I have been working day and nightsince Professor Van Helsing saw us.  He is gone to Whitby to get moreinformation, and he will be here tomorrow to help us.  We need have nosecrets amongst us.  Working together and with absolute trust, we cansurely be stronger than if some of us were in the dark."She looked at me so appealingly, and at the same time manifested suchcourage and resolution in her bearing, that I gave in at once to herwishes.  "You shall," I said, "do as you like in the matter.  Godforgive me if I do wrong!  There are terrible things yet to learn of,but if you have so far traveled on the road to poor Lucy's death, youwill not be content, I know, to remain in the dark.  Nay, the end, thevery end, may give you a gleam of peace.  Come, there is dinner.  Wemust keep one another strong for what is before us.  We have a crueland dreadful task.  When you have eaten you shall learn the rest, andI shall answer any questions you ask, if there be anything which youdo not understand, though it was apparent to us who were present."MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL29 September.--After dinner I came with Dr. Seward to his study.  Hebrought back the phonograph from my room, and I took a chair, andarranged the phonograph so that I could touch it without getting up,and showed me how to stop it in case I should want to pause.  Then hevery thoughtfully took a chair, with his back to me, so that I mightbe as free as possible, and began to read.  I put the forked metal tomy ears and listened.When the terrible story of Lucy's death, and all that followed, wasdone, I lay back in my chair powerless.  Fortunately I am not of afainting disposition.  When Dr. Seward saw me he jumped up with ahorrified exclamation, and hurriedly taking a case bottle from thecupboard, gave me some brandy, which in a few minutes somewhatrestored me.  My brain was all in a whirl, and only that there camethrough all the multitude of horrors, the holy ray of light that mydear Lucy was at last at peace, I do not think I could have borne itwithout making a scene.  It is all so wild and mysterious, and strangethat if I had not known Jonathan's experience in Transylvania I couldnot have believed.  As it was, I didn't know what to believe, and sogot out of my difficulty by attending to something else.  I took thecover off my typewriter, and said to Dr. Seward,"Let me write this all out now.  We must be ready for Dr. Van Helsingwhen he comes.  I have sent a telegram to Jonathan to come on herewhen he arrives in London from Whitby.  In this matter dates areeverything, and I think that if we get all of our material ready, andhave every item put in chronological order, we shall have done much."You tell me that Lord Godalming and Mr. Morris are coming too.  Letus be able to tell them when they come."He accordingly set the phonograph at a slow pace, and I began totypewrite from the beginning of the seventeenth cylinder.  I usedmanifold, and so took three copies of the diary, just as I had donewith the rest.  It was late when I got through, but Dr. Seward wentabout his work of going his round of the patients.  When he hadfinished he came back and sat near me, reading, so that I did not feeltoo lonely whilst I worked.  How good and thoughtful he is.  The worldseems full of good men, even if there are monsters in it.Before I left him I remembered what Jonathan put in his diary of theProfessor's perturbation at reading something in an evening paper atthe station at Exeter, so, seeing that Dr. Seward keeps hisnewspapers, I borrowed the files of 'The Westminster Gazette' and 'ThePall Mall Gazette' and took them to my room.  I remember how much the'Dailygraph' and 'The Whitby Gazette', of which I had made cuttings,had helped us to understand the terrible events at Whitby when CountDracula landed, so I shall look through the evening papers since then,and perhaps I shall get some new light.  I am not sleepy, and the workwill help to keep me quiet.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY30 September.--Mr. Harker arrived at nine o'clock.  He got his wife'swire just before starting.  He is uncommonly clever, if one can judgefrom his face, and full of energy.  If this journal be true, andjudging by one's own wonderful experiences, it must be, he is also aman of great nerve.  That going down to the vault a second time was aremarkable piece of daring.  After reading his account of it I wasprepared to meet a good specimen of manhood, but hardly the quiet,businesslike gentleman who came here today.LATER.--After lunch Harker and his wife went back to their own room,and as I passed a while ago I heard the click of the typewriter.  Theyare hard at it.  Mrs. Harker says that they are knitting together inchronological order every scrap of evidence they have.  Harker has gotthe letters between the consignee of the boxes at Whitby and thecarriers in London who took charge of them.  He is now reading hiswife's transcript of my diary.  I wonder what they make out of it.Here it is . . .Strange that it never struck me that the very next house might be theCount's hiding place!  Goodness knows that we had enough clues fromthe conduct of the patient Renfield!  The bundle of letters relatingto the purchase of the house were with the transcript.  Oh, if we hadonly had them earlier we might have saved poor Lucy!  Stop!  That waymadness lies!  Harker has gone back, and is again collecting material.He says that by dinner time they will be able to show a wholeconnected narrative.  He thinks that in the meantime I should seeRenfield, as hitherto he has been a sort of index to the coming andgoing of the Count.  I hardly see this yet, but when I get at thedates I suppose I shall.  What a good thing that Mrs. Harker put mycylinders into type!  We never could have found the dates otherwise.I found Renfield sitting placidly in his room with his hands folded,smiling benignly.  At the moment he seemed as sane as any one I eversaw.  I sat down and talked with him on a lot of subjects, all ofwhich he treated naturally.  He then, of his own accord, spoke ofgoing home, a subject he has never mentioned to my knowledge duringhis sojourn here.  In fact, he spoke quite confidently of getting hisdischarge at once.  I believe that, had I not had the chat with Harkerand read the letters and the dates of his outbursts, I should havebeen prepared to sign for him after a brief time of observation.  Asit is, I am darkly suspicious.  All those out-breaks were in some waylinked with the proximity of the Count.  What then does this absolutecontent mean?  Can it be that his instinct is satisfied as to thevampire's ultimate triumph?  Stay.  He is himself zoophagous, and inhis wild ravings outside the chapel door of the deserted house healways spoke of 'master'.  This all seems confirmation of our idea.However, after a while I came away.  My friend is just a little toosane at present to make it safe to probe him too deep with questions.He might begin to think, and then . . . So I came away.  I mistrustthese quiet moods of his, so I have given the attendant a hint tolook closely after him, and to have a strait waistcoat ready in caseof need.JOHNATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL29 September, in train to London.--When I received Mr. Billington'scourteous message that he would give me any information in his power Ithought it best to go down to Whitby and make, on the spot, suchinquiries as I wanted.  It was now my object to trace that horridcargo of the Count's to its place in London.  Later, we may be able todeal with it.  Billington junior, a nice lad, met me at the station,and brought me to his father's house, where they had decided that Imust spend the night.  They are hospitable, with true Yorkshirehospitality, give a guest everything and leave him to do as he likes.They all knew that I was busy, and that my stay was short, and Mr.Billington had ready in his office all the papers concerning theconsignment of boxes.  It gave me almost a turn to see again one ofthe letters which I had seen on the Count's table before I knew of hisdiabolical plans.  Everything had been carefully thought out, and donesystematically and with precision.  He seemed to have been preparedfor every obstacle which might be placed by accident in the way of hisintentions being carried out.  To use an Americanism, he had 'taken nochances', and the absolute accuracy with which his instructions werefulfilled was simply the logical result of his care.  I saw theinvoice, and took note of it.  'Fifty cases of common earth, to be usedfor experimental purposes'.  Also the copy of the letter to CarterPaterson, and their reply.  Of both these I got copies.  This was allthe information Mr. Billington could give me, so I went down to theport and saw the coastguards, the Customs Officers and the harbourmaster, who kindly put me in communication with the men who hadactually received the boxes.  Their tally was exact with the list, andthey had nothing to add to the simple description 'fifty cases ofcommon earth', except that the boxes were 'main and mortal heavy', andthat shifting them was dry work.  One of them added that it was hardlines that there wasn't any gentleman 'such like as like yourself,squire', to show some sort of appreciation of their efforts in aliquid form.  Another put in a rider that the thirst then generatedwas such that even the time which had elapsed had not completelyallayed it.  Needless to add, I took care before leaving to lift,forever and adequately, this source of reproach.30 September.--The station master was good enough to give me a line tohis old companion the station master at King's Cross, so that when Iarrived there in the morning I was able to ask him about the arrivalof the boxes.  He, too put me at once in communication with the properofficials, and I saw that their tally was correct with the originalinvoice.  The opportunities of acquiring an abnormal thirst had beenhere limited.  A noble use of them had, however, been made, and againI was compelled to deal with the result in ex post facto manner.From thence I went to Carter Paterson's central office, where I metwith the utmost courtesy.  They looked up the transaction in their daybook and letter book, and at once telephoned to their King's Crossoffice for more details.  By good fortune, the men who did the teamingwere waiting for work, and the official at once sent them over,sending also by one of them the way-bill and all the papers connectedwith the delivery of the boxes at Carfax.  Here again I found thetally agreeing exactly.  The carriers' men were able to supplement thepaucity of the written words with a few more details.  These were, Ishortly found, connected almost solely with the dusty nature of thejob, and the consequent thirst engendered in the operators.  On myaffording an opportunity, through the medium of the currency of therealm, of the allaying, at a later period, this beneficial evil, oneof the men remarked,"That 'ere 'ouse, guv'nor, is the rummiest I ever was in.  Blyme!  Butit ain't been touched sence a hundred years.  There was dust thatthick in the place that you might have slep' on it without 'urtin' ofyer bones.  An' the place was that neglected that yer might 'avesmelled ole Jerusalem in it.  But the old chapel, that took the cike,that did!  Me and my mate, we thort we wouldn't never git out quickenough.  Lor', I wouldn't take less nor a quid a moment to stay therearter dark."Having been in the house, I could well believe him, but if he knewwhat I know, he would, I think have raised his terms.Of one thing I am now satisfied.  That all those boxes which arrived atWhitby from Varna in the Demeter were safely deposited in the oldchapel at Carfax.  There should be fifty of them there, unless anyhave since been removed, as from Dr. Seward's diary I fear.Later.--Mina and I have worked all day, and we have put all the papersinto order.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL30 September.--I am so glad that I hardly know how to contain myself.It is, I suppose, the reaction from the haunting fear which I havehad, that this terrible affair and the reopening of his old woundmight act detrimentally on Jonathan.  I saw him leave for Whitby withas brave a face as could, but I was sick with apprehension.  Theeffort has, however, done him good.  He was never so resolute, neverso strong, never so full of volcanic energy, as at present.  It isjust as that dear, good Professor Van Helsing said, he is true grit,and he improves under strain that would kill a weaker nature.  He cameback full of life and hope and determination.  We have got everythingin order for tonight.  I feel myself quite wild with excitement.  Isuppose one ought to pity anything so hunted as the Count.  That isjust it.  This thing is not human, not even a beast.  To read Dr.Seward's account of poor Lucy's death, and what followed, is enough todry up the springs of pity in one's heart.Later.--Lord Godalming and Mr. Morris arrived earlier than weexpected.  Dr. Seward was out on business, and had taken Jonathan withhim, so I had to see them.  It was to me a painful meeting, for itbrought back all poor dear Lucy's hopes of only a few months ago.  Ofcourse they had heard Lucy speak of me, and it seemed that Dr. VanHelsing, too, had been quite 'blowing my trumpet', as Mr. Morrisexpressed it.  Poor fellows, neither of them is aware that I know allabout the proposals they made to Lucy.  They did not quite know whatto say or do, as they were ignorant of the amount of my knowledge.  Sothey had to keep on neutral subjects.  However, I thought the matterover, and came to the conclusion that the best thing I could do wouldbe to post them on affairs right up to date.  I knew from Dr. Seward'sdiary that they had been at Lucy's death, her real death, and that Ineed not fear to betray any secret before the time.  So I told them,as well as I could, that I had read all the papers and diaries, andthat my husband and I, having typewritten them, had just finishedputting them in order.  I gave them each a copy to read in thelibrary.  When Lord Godalming got his and turned it over, it does makea pretty good pile, he said, "Did you write all this, Mrs. Harker?"I nodded, and he went on."I don't quite see the drift of it, but you people are all so good andkind, and have been working so earnestly and so energetically, thatall I can do is to accept your ideas blindfold and try to help you.  Ihave had one lesson already in accepting facts that should make a manhumble to the last hour of his life.  Besides, I know you loved myLucy . . ."Here he turned away and covered his face with his hands.  I could hearthe tears in his voice.  Mr. Morris, with instinctive delicacy, justlaid a hand for a moment on his shoulder, and then walked quietly outof the room.  I suppose there is something in a woman's nature thatmakes a man free to break down before her and express his feelings onthe tender or emotional side without feeling it derogatory to hismanhood.  For when Lord Godalming found himself alone with me he satdown on the sofa and gave way utterly and openly.  I sat down besidehim and took his hand.  I hope he didn't think it forward of me, andthat if he ever thinks of it afterwards he never will have such athought.  There I wrong him.  I know he never will.  He is too true agentleman.  I said to him, for I could see that his heart wasbreaking, "I loved dear Lucy, and I know what she was to you, and whatyou were to her.  She and I were like sisters, and now she is gone,will you not let me be like a sister to you in your trouble?  I knowwhat sorrows you have had, though I cannot measure the depth of them.If sympathy and pity can help in your affliction, won't you let me beof some little service, for Lucy's sake?"In an instant the poor dear fellow was overwhelmed with grief.  Itseemed to me that all that he had of late been suffering in silencefound a vent at once.  He grew quite hysterical, and raising his openhands, beat his palms together in a perfect agony of grief.  He stoodup and then sat down again, and the tears rained down his cheeks.  Ifelt an infinite pity for him, and opened my arms unthinkingly.  Witha sob he laid his head on my shoulder and cried like a wearied child,whilst he shook with emotion.We women have something of the mother in us that makes us rise abovesmaller matters when the mother spirit is invoked.  I felt this bigsorrowing man's head resting on me, as though it were that of a babythat some day may lie on my bosom, and I stroked his hair as though hewere my own child.  I never thought at the time how strange it allwas.After a little bit his sobs ceased, and he raised himself with anapology, though he made no disguise of his emotion.  He told me thatfor days and nights past, weary days and sleepless nights, he had beenunable to speak with any one, as a man must speak in his time ofsorrow.  There was no woman whose sympathy could be given to him, orwith whom, owing to the terrible circumstance with which his sorrowwas surrounded, he could speak freely."I know now how I suffered," he said, as he dried his eyes, "but I donot know even yet, and none other can ever know, how much your sweetsympathy has been to me today.  I shall know better in time, andbelieve me that, though I am not ungrateful now, my gratitude willgrow with my understanding.  You will let me be like a brother, willyou not, for all our lives, for dear Lucy's sake?""For dear Lucy's sake," I said as we clasped hands.  "Ay, and for yourown sake," he added, "for if a man's esteem and gratitude are everworth the winning, you have won mine today.  If ever the future shouldbring to you a time when you need a man's help, believe me, you willnot call in vain.  God grant that no such time may ever come to you tobreak the sunshine of your life, but if it should ever come, promiseme that you will let me know."He was so earnest, and his sorrow was so fresh, that I felt it wouldcomfort him, so I said, "I promise."As I came along the corridor I saw Mr. Morris looking out of a window.He turned as he heard my footsteps.  "How is Art?" he said.  Thennoticing my red eyes, he went on, "Ah, I see you have been comfortinghim.  Poor old fellow!  He needs it.  No one but a woman can help aman when he is in trouble of the heart, and he had no one to comforthim."He bore his own trouble so bravely that my heart bled for him.  I sawthe manuscript in his hand, and I knew that when he read it he wouldrealize how much I knew, so I said to him, "I wish I could comfort allwho suffer from the heart.  Will you let me be your friend, and willyou come to me for comfort if you need it?  You will know later why Ispeak."He saw that I was in earnest, and stooping, took my hand, and raisingit to his lips, kissed it.  It seemed but poor comfort to so brave andunselfish a soul, and impulsively I bent over and kissed him.  Thetears rose in his eyes, and there was a momentary choking in histhroat.  He said quite calmly, "Little girl, you will never forgetthat true hearted kindness, so long as ever you live!"  Then he wentinto the study to his friend."Little girl!"  The very words he had used to Lucy, and, oh, but heproved himself a friend.CHAPTER 18DR. SEWARD'S DIARY30 September.--I got home at five o'clock, and found that Godalmingand Morris had not only arrived, but had already studied thetranscript of the various diaries and letters which Harker had not yetreturned from his visit to the carriers' men, of whom Dr. Hennesseyhad written to me.  Mrs. Harker gave us a cup of tea, and I canhonestly say that, for the first time since I have lived in it, thisold house seemed like home.  When we had finished, Mrs. Harker said,"Dr. Seward, may I ask a favour?  I want to see your patient, Mr.Renfield.  Do let me see him.  What you have said of him in your diaryinterests me so much!"She looked so appealing and so pretty that I could not refuse her, andthere was no possible reason why I should, so I took her with me.When I went into the room, I told the man that a lady would like to seehim, to which he simply answered, "Why?""She is going through the house, and wants to see every one in it," Ianswered."Oh, very well," he said, "let her come in, by all means, but justwait a minute till I tidy up the place."His method of tidying was peculiar, he simply swallowed all the fliesand spiders in the boxes before I could stop him.  It was quiteevident that he feared, or was jealous of, some interference.  When hehad got through his disgusting task, he said cheerfully, "Let the ladycome in," and sat down on the edge of his bed with his head down, butwith his eyelids raised so that he could see her as she entered.  Fora moment I thought that he might have some homicidal intent.  Iremembered how quiet he had been just before he attacked me in my ownstudy, and I took care to stand where I could seize him at once if heattempted to make a spring at her.She came into the room with an easy gracefulness which would at oncecommand the respect of any lunatic, for easiness is one of thequalities mad people most respect.  She walked over to him, smilingpleasantly, and held out her hand."Good evening, Mr. Renfield," said she.  "You see, I know you, for Dr.Seward has told me of you."  He made no immediate reply, but eyed herall over intently with a set frown on his face.  This look gave way toone of wonder, which merged in doubt, then to my intense astonishmenthe said, "You're not the girl the doctor wanted to marry, are you?  Youcan't be, you know, for she's dead."Mrs. Harker smiled sweetly as she replied, "Oh no!  I have a husbandof my own, to whom I was married before I ever saw Dr. Seward, or heme.  I am Mrs. Harker.""Then what are you doing here?""My husband and I are staying on a visit with Dr. Seward.""Then don't stay.""But why not?"I thought that this style of conversation might not be pleasant toMrs. Harker, any more than it was to me, so I joined in, "How did youknow I wanted to marry anyone?"His reply was simply contemptuous, given in a pause in which he turnedhis eyes from Mrs. Harker to me, instantly turning them back again,"What an asinine question!""I don't see that at all, Mr. Renfield," said Mrs. Harker, at oncechampioning me.He replied to her with as much courtesy and respect as he had showncontempt to me, "You will, of course, understand, Mrs. Harker, thatwhen a man is so loved and honoured as our host is, everythingregarding him is of interest in our little community.  Dr. Seward isloved not only by his household and his friends, but even by hispatients, who, being some of them hardly in mental equilibrium, areapt to distort causes and effects.  Since I myself have been an inmateof a lunatic asylum, I cannot but notice that the sophistic tendenciesof some of its inmates lean towards the errors of non causa andignoratio elenche."I positively opened my eyes at this new development.  Here was my ownpet lunatic, the most pronounced of his type that I had ever met with,talking elemental philosophy, and with the manner of a polishedgentleman.  I wonder if it was Mrs. Harker's presence which hadtouched some chord in his memory.  If this new phase was spontaneous,or in any way due to her unconscious influence, she must have somerare gift or power.We continued to talk for some time, and seeing that he was seeminglyquite reasonable, she ventured, looking at me questioningly as shebegan, to lead him to his favourite topic.  I was again astonished,for he addressed himself to the question with the impartiality ofthe completest sanity.  He even took himself as an example when hementioned certain things."Why, I myself am an instance of a man who had a strange belief.Indeed, it was no wonder that my friends were alarmed, and insisted onmy being put under control.  I used to fancy that life was a positiveand perpetual entity, and that by consuming a multitude of livethings, no matter how low in the scale of creation, one mightindefinitely prolong life.  At times I held the belief so stronglythat I actually tried to take human life.  The doctor here will bearme out that on one occasion I tried to kill him for the purpose ofstrengthening my vital powers by the assimilation with my own body ofhis life through the medium of his blood, relying of course, upon theScriptural phrase, 'For the blood is the life.'  Though, indeed, thevendor of a certain nostrum has vulgarized the truism to the verypoint of contempt.  Isn't that true, doctor?"I nodded assent, for I was so amazed that I hardly knew what to eitherthink or say, it was hard to imagine that I had seen him eat up hisspiders and flies not five minutes before.  Looking at my watch, I sawthat I should go to the station to meet Van Helsing, so I told Mrs.Harker that it was time to leave.She came at once, after saying pleasantly to Mr. Renfield, "Goodbye,and I hope I may see you often, under auspices pleasanter toyourself."To which, to my astonishment, he replied, "Goodbye, my dear.  I prayGod I may never see your sweet face again.  May He bless and keepyou!"When I went to the station to meet Van Helsing I left the boys behindme.  Poor Art seemed more cheerful than he has been since Lucy firsttook ill, and Quincey is more like his own bright self than he hasbeen for many a long day.Van Helsing stepped from the carriage with the eager nimbleness of aboy.  He saw me at once, and rushed up to me, saying, "Ah, friendJohn, how goes all?  Well?  So!  I have been busy, for I come here tostay if need be.  All affairs are settled with me, and I have much totell.  Madam Mina is with you?  Yes.  And her so fine husband?  AndArthur and my friend Quincey, they are with you, too?  Good!"As I drove to the house I told him of what had passed, and of how myown diary had come to be of some use through Mrs. Harker's suggestion,at which the Professor interrupted me."Ah, that wonderful Madam Mina!  She has man's brain, a brain that aman should have were he much gifted, and a woman's heart.  The goodGod fashioned her for a purpose, believe me, when He made that so goodcombination.  Friend John, up to now fortune has made that woman ofhelp to us, after tonight she must not have to do with this soterrible affair.  It is not good that she run a risk so great.  We menare determined, nay, are we not pledged, to destroy this monster?  Butit is no part for a woman.  Even if she be not harmed, her heart mayfail her in so much and so many horrors and hereafter she may suffer,both in waking, from her nerves, and in sleep, from her dreams.  And,besides, she is young woman and not so long married, there may beother things to think of some time, if not now.  You tell me she haswrote all, then she must consult with us, but tomorrow she say goodbyeto this work, and we go alone."I agreed heartily with him, and then I told him what we had found inhis absence, that the house which Dracula had bought was the very nextone to my own.  He was amazed, and a great concern seemed to come onhim."Oh that we had known it before!" he said, "for then we might havereached him in time to save poor Lucy.  However, 'the milk that isspilt cries not out afterwards,' as you say.  We shall not think ofthat, but go on our way to the end."  Then he fell into a silence thatlasted till we entered my own gateway.  Before we went to prepare fordinner he said to Mrs. Harker, "I am told, Madam Mina, by my friendJohn that you and your husband have put up in exact order all thingsthat have been, up to this moment.""Not up to this moment, Professor," she said impulsively, "but up tothis morning.""But why not up to now?  We have seen hitherto how good light all thelittle things have made.  We have told our secrets, and yet no one whohas told is the worse for it."Mrs. Harker began to blush, and taking a paper from her pockets, shesaid, "Dr. Van Helsing, will you read this, and tell me if it must goin.  It is my record of today.  I too have seen the need of puttingdown at present everything, however trivial, but there is little inthis except what is personal.  Must it go in?"The Professor read it over gravely, and handed it back, saying, "Itneed not go in if you do not wish it, but I pray that it may.  It canbut make your husband love you the more, and all us, your friends,more honour you, as well as more esteem and love."  She took it backwith another blush and a bright smile.And so now, up to this very hour, all the records we have are completeand in order.  The Professor took away one copy to study after dinner,and before our meeting, which is fixed for nine o'clock.  The rest ofus have already read everything, so when we meet in the study we shallall be informed as to facts, and can arrange our plan of battle withthis terrible and mysterious enemy.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL30 September.--When we met in Dr. Seward's study two hours afterdinner, which had been at six o'clock, we unconsciously formed a sortof board or committee.  Professor Van Helsing took the head of thetable, to which Dr. Seward motioned him as he came into the room.  Hemade me sit next to him on his right, and asked me to act assecretary.  Jonathan sat next to me.  Opposite us were Lord Godalming,Dr. Seward, and Mr. Morris, Lord Godalming being next the Professor,and Dr. Seward in the centre.The Professor said, "I may, I suppose, take it that we are allacquainted with the facts that are in these papers."  We all expressedassent, and he went on, "Then it were, I think, good that I tell yousomething of the kind of enemy with which we have to deal.  I shallthen make known to you something of the history of this man, which hasbeen ascertained for me.  So we then can discuss how we shall act, andcan take our measure according."There are such beings as vampires, some of us have evidence that theyexist.  Even had we not the proof of our own unhappy experience, theteachings and the records of the past give proof enough for sanepeoples.  I admit that at the first I was sceptic.  Were it not thatthrough long years I have trained myself to keep an open mind, I couldnot have believed until such time as that fact thunder on my ear.  'See!See!  I prove, I prove.'  Alas!  Had I known at first what now I know,nay, had I even guess at him, one so precious life had been spared tomany of us who did love her.  But that is gone, and we must so work,that other poor souls perish not, whilst we can save.  The nosferatudo not die like the bee when he sting once.  He is only stronger, andbeing stronger, have yet more power to work evil.  This vampire whichis amongst us is of himself so strong in person as twenty men, he isof cunning more than mortal, for his cunning be the growth of ages, hehave still the aids of necromancy, which is, as his etymology imply,the divination by the dead, and all the dead that he can come nigh toare for him at command; he is brute, and more than brute; he is devilin callous, and the heart of him is not; he can, within his range,direct the elements, the storm, the fog, the thunder; he can commandall the meaner things, the rat, and the owl, and the bat, the moth,and the fox, and the wolf, he can grow and become small; and he can attimes vanish and come unknown.  How then are we to begin our strike todestroy him?  How shall we find his where, and having found it, howcan we destroy?  My friends, this is much, it is a terrible task thatwe undertake, and there may be consequence to make the brave shudder.For if we fail in this our fight he must surely win, and then whereend we?  Life is nothings, I heed him not.  But to fail here, is notmere life or death.  It is that we become as him, that we henceforwardbecome foul things of the night like him, without heart or conscience,preying on the bodies and the souls of those we love best.  To usforever are the gates of heaven shut, for who shall open them to usagain?  We go on for all time abhorred by all, a blot on the face ofGod's sunshine, an arrow in the side of Him who died for man.  But weare face to face with duty, and in such case must we shrink?  For me,I say no, but then I am old, and life, with his sunshine, his fairplaces, his song of birds, his music and his love, lie far behind.  Youothers are young.  Some have seen sorrow, but there are fair days yetin store.  What say you?"Whilst he was speaking, Jonathan had taken my hand.  I feared, oh somuch, that the appalling nature of our danger was overcoming him whenI saw his hand stretch out, but it was life to me to feel its touch,so strong, so self reliant, so resolute.  A brave man's hand can speakfor itself, it does not even need a woman's love to hear its music.When the Professor had done speaking my husband looked in my eyes, andI in his, there was no need for speaking between us."I answer for Mina and myself," he said."Count me in, Professor," said Mr. Quincey Morris, laconically asusual."I am with you," said Lord Godalming, "for Lucy's sake, if for noother reason."Dr. Seward simply nodded.The Professor stood up and, after laying his golden crucifix on thetable, held out his hand on either side.  I took his right hand, andLord Godalming his left, Jonathan held my right with his left andstretched across to Mr. Morris.  So as we all took hands our solemncompact was made.  I felt my heart icy cold, but it did not even occurto me to draw back.  We resumed our places, and Dr. Van Helsing wenton with a sort of cheerfulness which showed that the serious work hadbegun.  It was to be taken as gravely, and in as businesslike a way,as any other transaction of life."Well, you know what we have to contend against, but we too, are notwithout strength.  We have on our side power of combination, a powerdenied to the vampire kind, we have sources of science, we are free toact and think, and the hours of the day and the night are oursequally.  In fact, so far as our powers extend, they are unfettered,and we are free to use them.  We have self devotion in a cause and anend to achieve which is not a selfish one.  These things are much."Now let us see how far the general powers arrayed against us arerestrict, and how the individual cannot.  In fine, let us consider thelimitations of the vampire in general, and of this one in particular."All we have to go upon are traditions and superstitions.  These donot at the first appear much, when the matter is one of life anddeath, nay of more than either life or death.  Yet must we besatisfied, in the first place because we have to be, no other means isat our control, and secondly, because, after all these things,tradition and superstition, are everything.  Does not the belief invampires rest for others, though not, alas! for us, on them?  A yearago which of us would have received such a possibility, in the midstof our scientific, sceptical, matter-of-fact nineteenth century?  Weeven scouted a belief that we saw justified under our very eyes.  Takeit, then, that the vampire, and the belief in his limitations and hiscure, rest for the moment on the same base.  For, let me tell you, heis known everywhere that men have been.  In old Greece, in old Rome,he flourish in Germany all over, in France, in India, even in theChermosese, and in China, so far from us in all ways, there even ishe, and the peoples for him at this day.  He have follow the wake ofthe berserker Icelander, the devil-begotten Hun, the Slav, the Saxon,the Magyar."So far, then, we have all we may act upon, and let me tell you thatvery much of the beliefs are justified by what we have seen in our ownso unhappy experience.  The vampire live on, and cannot die by merepassing of the time, he can flourish when that he can fatten on theblood of the living.  Even more, we have seen amongst us that he caneven grow younger, that his vital faculties grow strenuous, and seemas though they refresh themselves when his special pabulum is plenty."But he cannot flourish without this diet, he eat not as others.  Evenfriend Jonathan, who lived with him for weeks, did never see him eat,never!  He throws no shadow, he make in the mirror no reflect, asagain Jonathan observe.  He has the strength of many of his hand,witness again Jonathan when he shut the door against the wolves, andwhen he help him from the diligence too.  He can transform himself towolf, as we gather from the ship arrival in Whitby, when he tear openthe dog, he can be as bat, as Madam Mina saw him on the window atWhitby, and as friend John saw him fly from this so near house, and asmy friend Quincey saw him at the window of Miss Lucy."He can come in mist which he create, that noble ship's captain provedhim of this, but, from what we know, the distance he can make thismist is limited, and it can only be round himself."He come on moonlight rays as elemental dust, as again Jonathan sawthose sisters in the castle of Dracula.  He become so small, weourselves saw Miss Lucy, ere she was at peace, slip through ahairbreadth space at the tomb door.  He can, when once he find hisway, come out from anything or into anything, no matter how close itbe bound or even fused up with fire, solder you call it.  He can seein the dark, no small power this, in a world which is one half shutfrom the light.  Ah, but hear me through."He can do all these things, yet he is not free.  Nay, he is even moreprisoner than the slave of the galley, than the madman in his cell.He cannot go where he lists, he who is not of nature has yet to obeysome of nature's laws, why we know not.  He may not enter anywhere atthe first, unless there be some one of the household who bid him tocome, though afterwards he can come as he please.  His power ceases,as does that of all evil things, at the coming of the day."Only at certain times can he have limited freedom.  If he be not atthe place whither he is bound, he can only change himself at noon orat exact sunrise or sunset.  These things we are told, and in thisrecord of ours we have proof by inference.  Thus, whereas he can do ashe will within his limit, when he have his earth-home, hiscoffin-home, his hell-home, the place unhallowed, as we saw when hewent to the grave of the suicide at Whitby, still at other time he canonly change when the time come.  It is said, too, that he can onlypass running water at the slack or the flood of the tide.  Then thereare things which so afflict him that he has no power, as the garlicthat we know of, and as for things sacred, as this symbol, mycrucifix, that was amongst us even now when we resolve, to them he isnothing, but in their presence he take his place far off and silentwith respect.  There are others, too, which I shall tell you of, lestin our seeking we may need them."The branch of wild rose on his coffin keep him that he move not fromit, a sacred bullet fired into the coffin kill him so that he be truedead, and as for the stake through him, we know already of its peace,or the cut off head that giveth rest.  We have seen it with our eyes."Thus when we find the habitation of this man-that-was, we can confinehim to his coffin and destroy him, if we obey what we know.  But he isclever.  I have asked my friend Arminius, of Buda-Pesth University, tomake his record, and from all the means that are, he tell me of whathe has been.  He must, indeed, have been that Voivode Dracula who wonhis name against the Turk, over the great river on the very frontierof Turkeyland.  If it be so, then was he no common man, for in thattime, and for centuries after, he was spoken of as the cleverest andthe most cunning, as well as the bravest of the sons of the 'landbeyond the forest.'  That mighty brain and that iron resolution wentwith him to his grave, and are even now arrayed against us.  TheDraculas were, says Arminius, a great and noble race, though now andagain were scions who were held by their coevals to have had dealingswith the Evil One.  They learned his secrets in the Scholomance,amongst the mountains over Lake Hermanstadt, where the devil claimsthe tenth scholar as his due.  In the records are such words as'stregoica' witch, 'ordog' and 'pokol' Satan and hell, and in onemanuscript this very Dracula is spoken of as 'wampyr,' which we allunderstand too well.  There have been from the loins of this very onegreat men and good women, and their graves make sacred the earth wherealone this foulness can dwell.  For it is not the least of its terrorsthat this evil thing is rooted deep in all good, in soil barren ofholy memories it cannot rest."Whilst they were talking Mr. Morris was looking steadily at thewindow, and he now got up quietly, and went out of the room.  Therewas a little pause, and then the Professor went on."And now we must settle what we do.  We have here much data, and wemust proceed to lay out our campaign.  We know from the inquiry ofJonathan that from the castle to Whitby came fifty boxes of earth, allof which were delivered at Carfax, we also know that at least some ofthese boxes have been removed.  It seems to me, that our first stepshould be to ascertain whether all the rest remain in the house beyondthat wall where we look today, or whether any more have been removed.If the latter, we must trace . . ."Here we were interrupted in a very startling way.  Outside the housecame the sound of a pistol shot, the glass of the window was shatteredwith a bullet, which ricochetting from the top of the embrasure,struck the far wall of the room.  I am afraid I am at heart a coward,for I shrieked out.  The men all jumped to their feet, Lord Godalmingflew over to the window and threw up the sash.  As he did so we heardMr. Morris' voice without, "Sorry!  I fear I have alarmed you.  Ishall come in and tell you about it."A minute later he came in and said, "It was an idiotic thing of me todo, and I ask your pardon, Mrs. Harker, most sincerely, I fear I musthave frightened you terribly.  But the fact is that whilst theProfessor was talking there came a big bat and sat on the window sill.I have got such a horror of the damned brutes from recent events thatI cannot stand them, and I went out to have a shot, as I have beendoing of late of evenings, whenever I have seen one.  You used tolaugh at me for it then, Art.""Did you hit it?" asked Dr. Van Helsing."I don't know, I fancy not, for it flew away into the wood."  Withoutsaying any more he took his seat, and the Professor began to resumehis statement."We must trace each of these boxes, and when we are ready, we musteither capture or kill this monster in his lair, or we must, so tospeak, sterilize the earth, so that no more he can seek safety in it.Thus in the end we may find him in his form of man between the hoursof noon and sunset, and so engage with him when he is at his mostweak."And now for you, Madam Mina, this night is the end until all be well.You are too precious to us to have such risk.  When we part tonight,you no more must question.  We shall tell you all in good time.  Weare men and are able to bear, but you must be our star and our hope,and we shall act all the more free that you are not in the danger,such as we are."All the men, even Jonathan, seemed relieved, but it did not seem to megood that they should brave danger and, perhaps lessen their safety,strength being the best safety, through care of me, but their mindswere made up, and though it was a bitter pill for me to swallow, Icould say nothing, save to accept their chivalrous care of me.Mr. Morris resumed the discussion, "As there is no time to lose, Ivote we have a look at his house right now.  Time is everything withhim, and swift action on our part may save another victim."I own that my heart began to fail me when the time for action came soclose, but I did not say anything, for I had a greater fear that if Iappeared as a drag or a hindrance to their work, they might even leaveme out of their counsels altogether.  They have now gone off toCarfax, with means to get into the house.Manlike, they had told me to go to bed and sleep, as if a woman cansleep when those she loves are in danger!  I shall lie down, andpretend to sleep, lest Jonathan have added anxiety about me when hereturns.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY1 October, 4 A.M.--Just as we were about to leave the house, an urgentmessage was brought to me from Renfield to know if I would see him atonce, as he had something of the utmost importance to say to me.  Itold the messenger to say that I would attend to his wishes in themorning, I was busy just at the moment.The attendant added, "He seems very importunate, sir.  I have neverseen him so eager.  I don't know but what, if you don't see him soon,he will have one of his violent fits."  I knew the man would not havesaid this without some cause, so I said, "All right, I'll go now," andI asked the others to wait a few minutes for me, as I had to go andsee my patient."Take me with you, friend John," said the Professor.  "His case in yourdiary interest me much, and it had bearing, too, now and again on ourcase.  I should much like to see him, and especial when his mind isdisturbed.""May I come also?" asked Lord Godalming."Me too?" said Quincey Morris.  "May I come?" said Harker.  I nodded,and we all went down the passage together.We found him in a state of considerable excitement, but far morerational in his speech and manner than I had ever seen him.  There wasan unusual understanding of himself, which was unlike anything I hadever met with in a lunatic, and he took it for granted that hisreasons would prevail with others entirely sane.  We all five wentinto the room, but none of the others at first said anything.  Hisrequest was that I would at once release him from the asylum and sendhim home.  This he backed up with arguments regarding his completerecovery, and adduced his own existing sanity."I appeal to your friends," he said, "they will, perhaps, not mindsitting in judgement on my case.  By the way, you have not introducedme."I was so much astonished, that the oddness of introducing a madman inan asylum did not strike me at the moment, and besides, there was acertain dignity in the man's manner, so much of the habit of equality,that I at once made the introduction, "Lord Godalming, Professor VanHelsing, Mr. Quincey Morris, of Texas, Mr. Jonathan Harker, Mr.Renfield."He shook hands with each of them, saying in turn, "Lord Godalming, Ihad the honour of seconding your father at the Windham; I grieve toknow, by your holding the title, that he is no more.  He was a manloved and honoured by all who knew him, and in his youth was, I haveheard, the inventor of a burnt rum punch, much patronized on Derbynight.  Mr. Morris, you should be proud of your great state.  Itsreception into the Union was a precedent which may have far-reachingeffects hereafter, when the Pole and the Tropics may hold alliance tothe Stars and Stripes.  The power of Treaty may yet prove a vastengine of enlargement, when the Monroe doctrine takes its true placeas a political fable.  What shall any man say of his pleasure atmeeting Van Helsing?  Sir, I make no apology for dropping all forms ofconventional prefix.  When an individual has revolutionizedtherapeutics by his discovery of the continuous evolution of brainmatter, conventional forms are unfitting, since they would seem tolimit him to one of a class.  You, gentlemen, who by nationality, byheredity, or by the possession of natural gifts, are fitted to holdyour respective places in the moving world, I take to witness that Iam as sane as at least the majority of men who are in full possessionof their liberties.  And I am sure that you, Dr. Seward, humanitarianand medico-jurist as well as scientist, will deem it a moral duty todeal with me as one to be considered as under exceptionalcircumstances."  He made this last appeal with a courtly air ofconviction which was not without its own charm.I think we were all staggered.  For my own part, I was under theconviction, despite my knowledge of the man's character and history,that his reason had been restored, and I felt under a strong impulseto tell him that I was satisfied as to his sanity, and would see aboutthe necessary formalities for his release in the morning.  I thoughtit better to wait, however, before making so grave a statement, for ofold I knew the sudden changes to which this particular patient wasliable.  So I contented myself with making a general statement that heappeared to be improving very rapidly, that I would have a longer chatwith him in the morning, and would then see what I could do in thedirection of meeting his wishes.This did not at all satisfy him, for he said quickly, "But I fear, Dr.Seward, that you hardly apprehend my wish.  I desire to go at once,here, now, this very hour, this very moment, if I may.  Time presses,and in our implied agreement with the old scytheman it is of theessence of the contract.  I am sure it is only necessary to put beforeso admirable a practitioner as Dr. Seward so simple, yet so momentousa wish, to ensure its fulfilment."He looked at me keenly, and seeing the negative in my face, turned tothe others, and scrutinized them closely.  Not meeting any sufficientresponse, he went on, "Is it possible that I have erred in mysupposition?""You have," I said frankly, but at the same time, as I felt, brutally.There was a considerable pause, and then he said slowly, "Then Isuppose I must only shift my ground of request.  Let me ask for thisconcession, boon, privilege, what you will.  I am content to implorein such a case, not on personal grounds, but for the sake of others.  Iam not at liberty to give you the whole of my reasons, but you may, Iassure you, take it from me that they are good ones, sound andunselfish, and spring from the highest sense of duty."Could you look, sir, into my heart, you would approve to the full thesentiments which animate me.  Nay, more, you would count me amongstthe best and truest of your friends."Again he looked at us all keenly.  I had a growing conviction thatthis sudden change of his entire intellectual method was but yetanother phase of his madness, and so determined to let him go on alittle longer, knowing from experience that he would, like alllunatics, give himself away in the end.  Van Helsing was gazing at himwith a look of utmost intensity, his bushy eyebrows almost meetingwith the fixed concentration of his look.  He said to Renfield in atone which did not surprise me at the time, but only when I thought ofit afterwards, for it was as of one addressing an equal, "Can you nottell frankly your real reason for wishing to be free tonight?  I willundertake that if you will satisfy even me, a stranger, withoutprejudice, and with the habit of keeping an open mind, Dr. Seward willgive you, at his own risk and on his own responsibility, the privilegeyou seek."He shook his head sadly, and with a look of poignant regret on hisface.  The Professor went on, "Come, sir, bethink yourself.  You claimthe privilege of reason in the highest degree, since you seek toimpress us with your complete reasonableness.  You do this, whosesanity we have reason to doubt, since you are not yet released frommedical treatment for this very defect.  If you will not help us inour effort to choose the wisest course, how can we perform the dutywhich you yourself put upon us?  Be wise, and help us, and if we canwe shall aid you to achieve your wish."He still shook his head as he said, "Dr. Van Helsing, I have nothing tosay.  Your argument is complete, and if I were free to speak I shouldnot hesitate a moment, but I am not my own master in the matter.  Ican only ask you to trust me.  If I am refused, the responsibilitydoes not rest with me."I thought it was now time to end the scene, which was becoming toocomically grave, so I went towards the door, simply saying, "Come, myfriends, we have work to do.  Goodnight."As, however, I got near the door, a new change came over the patient.He moved towards me so quickly that for the moment I feared that hewas about to make another homicidal attack.  My fears, however, weregroundless, for he held up his two hands imploringly, and made hispetition in a moving manner.  As he saw that the very excess of hisemotion was militating against him, by restoring us more to our oldrelations, he became still more demonstrative.  I glanced at VanHelsing, and saw my conviction reflected in his eyes, so I became alittle more fixed in my manner, if not more stern, and motioned to himthat his efforts were unavailing.  I had previously seen something ofthe same constantly growing excitement in him when he had to make somerequest of which at the time he had thought much, such for instance,as when he wanted a cat, and I was prepared to see the collapse intothe same sullen acquiescence on this occasion.My expectation was not realized, for when he found that his appealwould not be successful, he got into quite a frantic condition.  Hethrew himself on his knees, and held up his hands, wringing them inplaintive supplication, and poured forth a torrent of entreaty, withthe tears rolling down his cheeks, and his whole face and formexpressive of the deepest emotion."Let me entreat you, Dr. Seward, oh, let me implore you, to let me outof this house at once.  Send me away how you will and where you will,send keepers with me with whips and chains, let them take me in astrait waistcoat, manacled and leg-ironed, even to gaol, but let me goout of this.  You don't know what you do by keeping me here.  I amspeaking from the depths of my heart, of my very soul.  You don't knowwhom you wrong, or how, and I may not tell.  Woe is me!  I may nottell.  By all you hold sacred, by all you hold dear, by your love thatis lost, by your hope that lives, for the sake of the Almighty, takeme out of this and save my soul from guilt!  Can't you hear me, man?Can't you understand?  Will you never learn?  Don't you know that I amsane and earnest now, that I am no lunatic in a mad fit, but a saneman fighting for his soul?  Oh, hear me!  Hear me!  Let me go, let mego, let me go!"I thought that the longer this went on the wilder he would get, and sowould bring on a fit, so I took him by the hand and raised him up."Come," I said sternly, "no more of this, we have had quite enoughalready.  Get to your bed and try to behave more discreetly."He suddenly stopped and looked at me intently for several moments.Then, without a word, he rose and moving over, sat down on the side ofthe bed.  The collapse had come, as on former occasions, just as I hadexpected.When I was leaving the room, last of our party, he said to me in aquiet, well-bred voice, "You will, I trust, Dr. Seward, do me thejustice to bear in mind, later on, that I did what I could to convinceyou tonight."CHAPTER 19JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL1 October, 5 A.M.--I went with the party to the search with an easymind, for I think I never saw Mina so absolutely strong and well.  Iam so glad that she consented to hold back and let us men do the work.Somehow, it was a dread to me that she was in this fearful business atall, but now that her work is done, and that it is due to her energyand brains and foresight that the whole story is put together in sucha way that every point tells, she may well feel that her part isfinished, and that she can henceforth leave the rest to us.  We were,I think, all a little upset by the scene with Mr. Renfield.  When wecame away from his room we were silent till we got back to the study.Then Mr. Morris said to Dr. Seward, "Say, Jack, if that man wasn'tattempting a bluff, he is about the sanest lunatic I ever saw.  I'mnot sure, but I believe that he had some serious purpose, and if hehad, it was pretty rough on him not to get a chance."Lord Godalming and I were silent, but Dr. Van Helsing added, "FriendJohn, you know more lunatics than I do, and I'm glad of it, for I fearthat if it had been to me to decide I would before that lasthysterical outburst have given him free.  But we live and learn, andin our present task we must take no chance, as my friend Quincey wouldsay.  All is best as they are."Dr. Seward seemed to answer them both in a dreamy kind of way, "Idon't know but that I agree with you.  If that man had been anordinary lunatic I would have taken my chance of trusting him, but heseems so mixed up with the Count in an indexy kind of way that I amafraid of doing anything wrong by helping his fads.  I can't forgethow he prayed with almost equal fervor for a cat, and then tried totear my throat out with his teeth.  Besides, he called the Count 'lordand master', and he may want to get out to help him in some diabolicalway.  That horrid thing has the wolves and the rats and his own kindto help him, so I suppose he isn't above trying to use a respectablelunatic.  He certainly did seem earnest, though.  I only hope we havedone what is best.  These things, in conjunction with the wild work wehave in hand, help to unnerve a man."The Professor stepped over, and laying his hand on his shoulder, saidin his grave, kindly way, "Friend John, have no fear.  We are tryingto do our duty in a very sad and terrible case, we can only do as wedeem best.  What else have we to hope for, except the pity of the goodGod?"Lord Godalming had slipped away for a few minutes, but now hereturned.  He held up a little silver whistle as he remarked, "Thatold place may be full of rats, and if so, I've got an antidote oncall."Having passed the wall, we took our way to the house, taking care tokeep in the shadows of the trees on the lawn when the moonlight shoneout.  When we got to the porch the Professor opened his bag and tookout a lot of things, which he laid on the step, sorting them into fourlittle groups, evidently one for each.  Then he spoke."My friends, we are going into a terrible danger, and we need arms ofmany kinds.  Our enemy is not merely spiritual.  Remember that he hasthe strength of twenty men, and that, though our necks or ourwindpipes are of the common kind, and therefore breakable orcrushable, his are not amenable to mere strength.  A stronger man, ora body of men more strong in all than him, can at certain times holdhim, but they cannot hurt him as we can be hurt by him.  We must,therefore, guard ourselves from his touch.  Keep this near yourheart."  As he spoke he lifted a little silver crucifix and held itout to me, I being nearest to him, "put these flowers round yourneck," here he handed to me a wreath of withered garlic blossoms, "forother enemies more mundane, this revolver and this knife, and for aidin all, these so small electric lamps, which you can fasten to yourbreast, and for all, and above all at the last, this, which we mustnot desecrate needless."This was a portion of Sacred Wafer, which he put in an envelope andhanded to me.  Each of the others was similarly equipped."Now," he said, "friend John, where are the skeleton keys?  If so thatwe can open the door, we need not break house by the window, as beforeat Miss Lucy's."Dr. Seward tried one or two skeleton keys, his mechanical dexterity asa surgeon standing him in good stead.  Presently he got one to suit,after a little play back and forward the bolt yielded, and with arusty clang, shot back.  We pressed on the door, the rusty hingescreaked, and it slowly opened.  It was startlingly like the imageconveyed to me in Dr. Seward's diary of the opening of Miss Westenra'stomb, I fancy that the same idea seemed to strike the others, for withone accord they shrank back.  The Professor was the first to moveforward, and stepped into the open door."In manus tuas, Domine!" he said, crossing himself as he passed overthe threshold.  We closed the door behind us, lest when we should havelit our lamps we should possibly attract attention from the road.  TheProfessor carefully tried the lock, lest we might not be able to openit from within should we be in a hurry making our exit.  Then we alllit our lamps and proceeded on our search.The light from the tiny lamps fell in all sorts of odd forms, as therays crossed each other, or the opacity of our bodies threw greatshadows.  I could not for my life get away from the feeling that therewas someone else amongst us.  I suppose it was the recollection, sopowerfully brought home to me by the grim surroundings, of thatterrible experience in Transylvania.  I think the feeling was commonto us all, for I noticed that the others kept looking over theirshoulders at every sound and every new shadow, just as I felt myselfdoing.The whole place was thick with dust.  The floor was seemingly inchesdeep, except where there were recent footsteps, in which on holdingdown my lamp I could see marks of hobnails where the dust was cracked.The walls were fluffy and heavy with dust, and in the corners weremasses of spider's webs, whereon the dust had gathered till theylooked like old tattered rags as the weight had torn them partly down.On a table in the hall was a great bunch of keys, with a time-yellowedlabel on each.  They had been used several times, for on the tablewere several similar rents in the blanket of dust, similar to thatexposed when the Professor lifted them.He turned to me and said, "You know this place, Jonathan.  You havecopied maps of it, and you know it at least more than we do.  Which isthe way to the chapel?"I had an idea of its direction, though on my former visit I had notbeen able to get admission to it, so I led the way, and after a fewwrong turnings found myself opposite a low, arched oaken door, ribbedwith iron bands."This is the spot," said the Professor as he turned his lamp on asmall map of the house, copied from the file of my originalcorrespondence regarding the purchase.  With a little trouble we foundthe key on the bunch and opened the door.  We were prepared for someunpleasantness, for as we were opening the door a faint, malodorousair seemed to exhale through the gaps, but none of us ever expectedsuch an odour as we encountered.  None of the others had met the Countat all at close quarters, and when I had seen him he was either in thefasting stage of his existence in his rooms or, when he was bloatedwith fresh blood, in a ruined building open to the air, but here theplace was small and close, and the long disuse had made the airstagnant and foul.  There was an earthy smell, as of some dry miasma,which came through the fouler air.  But as to the odour itself, howshall I describe it?  It was not alone that it was composed of all theills of mortality and with the pungent, acrid smell of blood, but itseemed as though corruption had become itself corrupt.  Faugh!  Itsickens me to think of it.  Every breath exhaled by that monsterseemed to have clung to the place and intensified its loathsomeness.Under ordinary circumstances such a stench would have brought ourenterprise to an end, but this was no ordinary case, and the high andterrible purpose in which we were involved gave us a strength whichrose above merely physical considerations.  After the involuntaryshrinking consequent on the first nauseous whiff, we one and all setabout our work as though that loathsome place were a garden of roses.We made an accurate examination of the place, the Professor saying aswe began, "The first thing is to see how many of the boxes are left,we must then examine every hole and corner and cranny and see if wecannot get some clue as to what has become of the rest."A glance was sufficient to show how many remained, for the great earthchests were bulky, and there was no mistaking them.There were only twenty-nine left out of the fifty!  Once I got afright, for, seeing Lord Godalming suddenly turn and look out of thevaulted door into the dark passage beyond, I looked too, and for aninstant my heart stood still.  Somewhere, looking out from the shadow,I seemed to see the high lights of the Count's evil face, the ridge ofthe nose, the red eyes, the red lips, the awful pallor.  It was onlyfor a moment, for, as Lord Godalming said, "I thought I saw a face,but it was only the shadows," and resumed his inquiry, I turned mylamp in the direction, and stepped into the passage.  There was nosign of anyone, and as there were no corners, no doors, no aperture ofany kind, but only the solid walls of the passage, there could be nohiding place even for him.  I took it that fear had helpedimagination, and said nothing.A few minutes later I saw Morris step suddenly back from a corner,which he was examining.  We all followed his movements with our eyes,for undoubtedly some nervousness was growing on us, and we saw a wholemass of phosphorescence, which twinkled like stars.  We allinstinctively drew back.  The whole place was becoming alive withrats.For a moment or two we stood appalled, all save Lord Godalming, whowas seemingly prepared for such an emergency.  Rushing over to thegreat iron-bound oaken door, which Dr. Seward had described from theoutside, and which I had seen myself, he turned the key in the lock,drew the huge bolts, and swung the door open.  Then, taking his littlesilver whistle from his pocket, he blew a low, shrill call.  It wasanswered from behind Dr. Seward's house by the yelping of dogs, andafter about a minute three terriers came dashing round the corner ofthe house.  Unconsciously we had all moved towards the door, and as wemoved I noticed that the dust had been much disturbed.  The boxeswhich had been taken out had been brought this way.  But even in theminute that had elapsed the number of the rats had vastly increased.They seemed to swarm over the place all at once, till the lamplight,shining on their moving dark bodies and glittering, baleful eyes, madethe place look like a bank of earth set with fireflies.  The dogsdashed on, but at the threshold suddenly stopped and snarled, andthen, simultaneously lifting their noses, began to howl in mostlugubrious fashion.  The rats were multiplying in thousands, and wemoved out.Lord Godalming lifted one of the dogs, and carrying him in, placed himon the floor.  The instant his feet touched the ground he seemed torecover his courage, and rushed at his natural enemies.  They fledbefore him so fast that before he had shaken the life out of a score,the other dogs, who had by now been lifted in the same manner, had butsmall prey ere the whole mass had vanished.With their going it seemed as if some evil presence had departed, forthe dogs frisked about and barked merrily as they made sudden darts attheir prostrate foes, and turned them over and over and tossed them inthe air with vicious shakes.  We all seemed to find our spirits rise.Whether it was the purifying of the deadly atmosphere by the openingof the chapel door, or the relief which we experienced by findingourselves in the open I know not, but most certainly the shadow ofdread seemed to slip from us like a robe, and the occasion of ourcoming lost something of its grim significance, though we did notslacken a whit in our resolution.  We closed the outer door and barredand locked it, and bringing the dogs with us, began our search of thehouse.  We found nothing throughout except dust in extraordinaryproportions, and all untouched save for my own footsteps when I hadmade my first visit.  Never once did the dogs exhibit any symptom ofuneasiness, and even when we returned to the chapel they frisked aboutas though they had been rabbit hunting in a summer wood.The morning was quickening in the east when we emerged from the front.Dr. Van Helsing had taken the key of the hall door from the bunch, andlocked the door in orthodox fashion, putting the key into his pocketwhen he had done."So far," he said, "our night has been eminently successful.  No harmhas come to us such as I feared might be and yet we have ascertainedhow many boxes are missing.  More than all do I rejoice that this, ourfirst, and perhaps our most difficult and dangerous, step has beenaccomplished without the bringing thereinto our most sweet Madam Minaor troubling her waking or sleeping thoughts with sights and soundsand smells of horror which she might never forget.  One lesson, too,we have learned, if it be allowable to argue a particulari, that thebrute beasts which are to the Count's command are yet themselves notamenable to his spiritual power, for look, these rats that would cometo his call, just as from his castle top he summon the wolves to yourgoing and to that poor mother's cry, though they come to him, they runpell-mell from the so little dogs of my friend Arthur.  We have othermatters before us, other dangers, other fears, and that monster . . .He has not used his power over the brute world for the only or thelast time tonight.  So be it that he has gone elsewhere.  Good!  Ithas given us opportunity to cry 'check' in some ways in this chessgame, which we play for the stake of human souls.  And now let us gohome.  The dawn is close at hand, and we have reason to be contentwith our first night's work.  It may be ordained that we have manynights and days to follow, if full of peril, but we must go on, andfrom no danger shall we shrink."The house was silent when we got back, save for some poor creature whowas screaming away in one of the distant wards, and a low, moaningsound from Renfield's room.  The poor wretch was doubtless torturinghimself, after the manner of the insane, with needless thoughts ofpain.I came tiptoe into our own room, and found Mina asleep, breathing sosoftly that I had to put my ear down to hear it.  She looks paler thanusual.  I hope the meeting tonight has not upset her.  I am trulythankful that she is to be left out of our future work, and even ofour deliberations.  It is too great a strain for a woman to bear.  Idid not think so at first, but I know better now.  Therefore I am gladthat it is settled.  There may be things which would frighten her tohear, and yet to conceal them from her might be worse than to tell herif once she suspected that there was any concealment.  Henceforth ourwork is to be a sealed book to her, till at least such time as we cantell her that all is finished, and the earth free from a monster ofthe nether world.  I daresay it will be difficult to begin to keepsilence after such confidence as ours, but I must be resolute, andtomorrow I shall keep dark over tonight's doings, and shall refuse tospeak of anything that has happened.  I rest on the sofa, so as not todisturb her.1 October, later.--I suppose it was natural that we should have alloverslept ourselves, for the day was a busy one, and the night had norest at all.  Even Mina must have felt its exhaustion, for though Islept till the sun was high, I was awake before her, and had to calltwo or three times before she awoke.  Indeed, she was so sound asleepthat for a few seconds she did not recognize me, but looked at me witha sort of blank terror, as one looks who has been waked out of a baddream.  She complained a little of being tired, and I let her resttill later in the day.  We now know of twenty-one boxes having beenremoved, and if it be that several were taken in any of these removalswe may be able to trace them all.  Such will, of course, immenselysimplify our labor, and the sooner the matter is attended to thebetter.  I shall look up Thomas Snelling today.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY1 October.--It was towards noon when I was awakened by the Professorwalking into my room.  He was more jolly and cheerful than usual, andit is quite evident that last night's work has helped to take some ofthe brooding weight off his mind.After going over the adventure of the night he suddenly said, "Yourpatient interests me much.  May it be that with you I visit him thismorning?  Or if that you are too occupy, I can go alone if it may be.It is a new experience to me to find a lunatic who talk philosophy,and reason so sound."I had some work to do which pressed, so I told him that if he would goalone I would be glad, as then I should not have to keep him waiting,so I called an attendant and gave him the necessary instructions.Before the Professor left the room I cautioned him against getting anyfalse impression from my patient."But," he answered, "I want him to talk of himself and of his delusionas to consuming live things.  He said to Madam Mina, as I see in yourdiary of yesterday, that he had once had such a belief.  Why do yousmile, friend John?""Excuse me," I said, "but the answer is here."  I laid my hand on thetypewritten matter.  "When our sane and learned lunatic made that verystatement of how he used to consume life, his mouth was actuallynauseous with the flies and spiders which he had eaten just beforeMrs. Harker entered the room."Van Helsing smiled in turn.  "Good!" he said.  "Your memory is true,friend John.  I should have remembered.  And yet it is this veryobliquity of thought and memory which makes mental disease such afascinating study.  Perhaps I may gain more knowledge out of the follyof this madman than I shall from the teaching of the most wise.  Whoknows?"I went on with my work, and before long was through that in hand.  Itseemed that the time had been very short indeed, but there was VanHelsing back in the study."Do I interrupt?" he asked politely as he stood at the door."Not at all," I answered.  "Come in.  My work is finished, and I amfree.  I can go with you now, if you like.""It is needless, I have seen him!""Well?""I fear that he does not appraise me at much.  Our interview wasshort.  When I entered his room he was sitting on a stool in thecentre, with his elbows on his knees, and his face was the picture ofsullen discontent.  I spoke to him as cheerfully as I could, and withsuch a measure of respect as I could assume.  He made no replywhatever.  'Don't you know me?' I asked.  His answer was notreassuring: 'I know you well enough; you are the old fool VanHelsing.  I wish you would take yourself and your idiotic braintheories somewhere else.  Damn all thick-headed Dutchmen!'  Not a wordmore would he say, but sat in his implacable sullenness as indifferentto me as though I had not been in the room at all.  Thus departed forthis time my chance of much learning from this so clever lunatic, so Ishall go, if I may, and cheer myself with a few happy words with thatsweet soul Madam Mina.  Friend John, it does rejoice me unspeakablethat she is no more to be pained, no more to be worried with ourterrible things.  Though we shall much miss her help, it is betterso.""I agree with you with all my heart," I answered earnestly, for I didnot want him to weaken in this matter.  "Mrs. Harker is better out ofit.  Things are quite bad enough for us, all men of the world, and whohave been in many tight places in our time, but it is no place for awoman, and if she had remained in touch with the affair, it would intime infallibly have wrecked her."So Van Helsing has gone to confer with Mrs. Harker and Harker, Quinceyand Art are all out following up the clues as to the earth boxes.  Ishall finish my round of work and we shall meet tonight.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL1 October.--It is strange to me to be kept in the dark as I am today,after Jonathan's full confidence for so many years, to see himmanifestly avoid certain matters, and those the most vital of all.This morning I slept late after the fatigues of yesterday, and thoughJonathan was late too, he was the earlier.  He spoke to me before hewent out, never more sweetly or tenderly, but he never mentioned aword of what had happened in the visit to the Count's house.  And yethe must have known how terribly anxious I was.  Poor dear fellow!  Isuppose it must have distressed him even more than it did me.  Theyall agreed that it was best that I should not be drawn further intothis awful work, and I acquiesced.  But to think that he keepsanything from me!  And now I am crying like a silly fool, when I knowit comes from my husband's great love and from the good, good wishesof those other strong men.That has done me good.  Well, some day Jonathan will tell me all.  Andlest it should ever be that he should think for a moment that I keptanything from him, I still keep my journal as usual.  Then if he hasfeared of my trust I shall show it to him, with every thought of myheart put down for his dear eyes to read.  I feel strangely sad andlow-spirited today.  I suppose it is the reaction from the terribleexcitement.Last night I went to bed when the men had gone, simply because theytold me to.  I didn't feel sleepy, and I did feel full of devouringanxiety.  I kept thinking over everything that has been ever sinceJonathan came to see me in London, and it all seems like a horribletragedy, with fate pressing on relentlessly to some destined end.Everything that one does seems, no matter how right it may be, to bringon the very thing which is most to be deplored.  If I hadn't gone toWhitby, perhaps poor dear Lucy would be with us now.  She hadn't takento visiting the churchyard till I came, and if she hadn't come therein the day time with me she wouldn't have walked in her sleep.  And ifshe hadn't gone there at night and asleep, that monster couldn't havedestroyed her as he did.  Oh, why did I ever go to Whitby?  There now,crying again!  I wonder what has come over me today.  I must hide itfrom Jonathan, for if he knew that I had been crying twice in onemorning . . . I, who never cried on my own account, and whom he hasnever caused to shed a tear, the dear fellow would fret his heart out.I shall put a bold face on, and if I do feel weepy, he shall never seeit.  I suppose it is just one of the lessons that we poor women haveto learn . . .I can't quite remember how I fell asleep last night.  I rememberhearing the sudden barking of the dogs and a lot of queer sounds, likepraying on a very tumultuous scale, from Mr. Renfield's room, which issomewhere under this.  And then there was silence over everything,silence so profound that it startled me, and I got up and looked outof the window.  All was dark and silent, the black shadows thrown bythe moonlight seeming full of a silent mystery of their own.  Not athing seemed to be stirring, but all to be grim and fixed as death orfate, so that a thin streak of white mist, that crept with almostimperceptible slowness across the grass towards the house, seemed tohave a sentience and a vitality of its own.  I think that thedigression of my thoughts must have done me good, for when I got backto bed I found a lethargy creeping over me.  I lay a while, but couldnot quite sleep, so I got out and looked out of the window again.  Themist was spreading, and was now close up to the house, so that I couldsee it lying thick against the wall, as though it were stealing up tothe windows.  The poor man was more loud than ever, and though I couldnot distinguish a word he said, I could in some way recognize in histones some passionate entreaty on his part.  Then there was the soundof a struggle, and I knew that the attendants were dealing with him.I was so frightened that I crept into bed, and pulled the clothes overmy head, putting my fingers in my ears.  I was not then a bit sleepy,at least so I thought, but I must have fallen asleep, for exceptdreams, I do not remember anything until the morning, when Jonathanwoke me.  I think that it took me an effort and a little time torealize where I was, and that it was Jonathan who was bending over me.My dream was very peculiar, and was almost typical of the way thatwaking thoughts become merged in, or continued in, dreams.I thought that I was asleep, and waiting for Jonathan to come back.  Iwas very anxious about him, and I was powerless to act, my feet, andmy hands, and my brain were weighted, so that nothing could proceed atthe usual pace.  And so I slept uneasily and thought.  Then it beganto dawn upon me that the air was heavy, and dank, and cold.  I putback the clothes from my face, and found, to my surprise, that all wasdim around.  The gaslight which I had left lit for Jonathan, butturned down, came only like a tiny red spark through the fog, whichhad evidently grown thicker and poured into the room.  Then itoccurred to me that I had shut the window before I had come to bed.  Iwould have got out to make certain on the point, but some leadenlethargy seemed to chain my limbs and even my will.  I lay still andendured, that was all.  I closed my eyes, but could still see throughmy eyelids.  (It is wonderful what tricks our dreams play us, and howconveniently we can imagine.)  The mist grew thicker and thicker and Icould see now how it came in, for I could see it like smoke, or withthe white energy of boiling water, pouring in, not through the window,but through the joinings of the door.  It got thicker and thicker,till it seemed as if it became concentrated into a sort of pillar ofcloud in the room, through the top of which I could see the light ofthe gas shining like a red eye.  Things began to whirl through mybrain just as the cloudy column was now whirling in the room, andthrough it all came the scriptural words "a pillar of cloud by day andof fire by night."  Was it indeed such spiritual guidance that wascoming to me in my sleep?  But the pillar was composed of both the dayand the night guiding, for the fire was in the red eye, which at thethought got a new fascination for me, till, as I looked, the firedivided, and seemed to shine on me through the fog like two red eyes,such as Lucy told me of in her momentary mental wandering when, on thecliff, the dying sunlight struck the windows of St. Mary's Church.Suddenly the horror burst upon me that it was thus that Jonathan hadseen those awful women growing into reality through the whirling mistin the moonlight, and in my dream I must have fainted, for all becameblack darkness.  The last conscious effort which imagination made wasto show me a livid white face bending over me out of the mist.I must be careful of such dreams, for they would unseat one's reason ifthere were too much of them.  I would get Dr. Van Helsing or Dr.Seward to prescribe something for me which would make me sleep, onlythat I fear to alarm them.  Such a dream at the present time wouldbecome woven into their fears for me.  Tonight I shall strive hard tosleep naturally.  If I do not, I shall tomorrow night get them to giveme a dose of chloral, that cannot hurt me for once, and it will giveme a good night's sleep.  Last night tired me more than if I had notslept at all.2 October 10 P.M.--Last night I slept, but did not dream.  I must haveslept soundly, for I was not waked by Jonathan coming to bed, but thesleep has not refreshed me, for today I feel terribly weak andspiritless.  I spent all yesterday trying to read, or lying downdozing.  In the afternoon, Mr. Renfield asked if he might see me.  Poorman, he was very gentle, and when I came away he kissed my hand andbade God bless me.  Some way it affected me much.  I am crying when Ithink of him.  This is a new weakness, of which I must be careful.Jonathan would be miserable if he knew I had been crying.  He and theothers were out till dinner time, and they all came in tired.  I didwhat I could to brighten them up, and I suppose that the effort did megood, for I forgot how tired I was.  After dinner they sent me to bed,and all went off to smoke together, as they said, but I knew that theywanted to tell each other of what had occurred to each during the day.I could see from Jonathan's manner that he had something important tocommunicate.  I was not so sleepy as I should have been, so beforethey went I asked Dr. Seward to give me a little opiate of some kind,as I had not slept well the night before.  He very kindly made me up asleeping draught, which he gave to me, telling me that it would do meno harm, as it was very mild . . . I have taken it, and am waiting forsleep, which still keeps aloof.  I hope I have not done wrong, for assleep begins to flirt with me, a new fear comes: that I may have beenfoolish in thus depriving myself of the power of waking.  I might wantit.  Here comes sleep.  Goodnight.CHAPTER 20JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL1 October, evening.--I found Thomas Snelling in his house at BethnalGreen, but unhappily he was not in a condition to remember anything.The very prospect of beer which my expected coming had opened to himhad proved too much, and he had begun too early on his expecteddebauch.  I learned, however, from his wife, who seemed a decent, poorsoul, that he was only the assistant of Smollet, who of the two mateswas the responsible person.  So off I drove to Walworth, and found Mr.Joseph Smollet at home and in his shirtsleeves, taking a late tea outof a saucer.  He is a decent, intelligent fellow, distinctly a good,reliable type of workman, and with a headpiece of his own.  Heremembered all about the incident of the boxes, and from a wonderfuldog-eared notebook, which he produced from some mysterious receptacleabout the seat of his trousers, and which had hieroglyphical entriesin thick, half-obliterated pencil, he gave me the destinations of theboxes.  There were, he said, six in the cartload which he took fromCarfax and left at 197 Chicksand Street, Mile End New Town, andanother six which he deposited at Jamaica Lane, Bermondsey.  If thenthe Count meant to scatter these ghastly refuges of his over London,these places were chosen as the first of delivery, so that later hemight distribute more fully.  The systematic manner in which this wasdone made me think that he could not mean to confine himself to twosides of London.  He was now fixed on the far east on the northernshore, on the east of the southern shore, and on the south.  The northand west were surely never meant to be left out of his diabolicalscheme, let alone the City itself and the very heart of fashionableLondon in the south-west and west.  I went back to Smollet, and askedhim if he could tell us if any other boxes had been taken from Carfax.He replied, "Well guv'nor, you've treated me very 'an'some", I hadgiven him half a sovereign, "an I'll tell yer all I know.  I heard aman by the name of Bloxam say four nights ago in the 'Are an' 'Ounds,in Pincher's Alley, as 'ow he an' his mate 'ad 'ad a rare dusty job ina old 'ouse at Purfleet.  There ain't a many such jobs as this 'ere,an' I'm thinkin' that maybe Sam Bloxam could tell ye summut."I asked if he could tell me where to find him.  I told him that if hecould get me the address it would be worth another half sovereign tohim.  So he gulped down the rest of his tea and stood up, saying thathe was going to begin the search then and there.At the door he stopped, and said, "Look 'ere, guv'nor, there ain't nosense in me a keepin' you 'ere.  I may find Sam soon, or I mayn't, butanyhow he ain't like to be in a way to tell ye much tonight.  Sam is arare one when he starts on the booze.  If you can give me a envelopewith a stamp on it, and put yer address on it, I'll find out where Samis to be found and post it ye tonight.  But ye'd better be up arter'im soon in the mornin', never mind the booze the night afore."This was all practical, so one of the children went off with a pennyto buy an envelope and a sheet of paper, and to keep the change.  Whenshe came back, I addressed the envelope and stamped it, and whenSmollet had again faithfully promised to post the address when found,I took my way to home.  We're on the track anyhow.  I am tiredtonight, and I want to sleep.  Mina is fast asleep, and looks a littletoo pale.  Her eyes look as though she had been crying.  Poor dear,I've no doubt it frets her to be kept in the dark, and it may make herdoubly anxious about me and the others.  But it is best as it is.  Itis better to be disappointed and worried in such a way now than tohave her nerve broken.  The doctors were quite right to insist on herbeing kept out of this dreadful business.  I must be firm, for on methis particular burden of silence must rest.  I shall not ever enteron the subject with her under any circumstances.  Indeed, It may notbe a hard task, after all, for she herself has become reticent on thesubject, and has not spoken of the Count or his doings ever since wetold her of our decision.2 October, evening--A long and trying and exciting day.  By the firstpost I got my directed envelope with a dirty scrap of paper enclosed,on which was written with a carpenter's pencil in a sprawling hand,"Sam Bloxam, Korkrans, 4 Poters Cort, Bartel Street, Walworth.  Arskfor the depite."I got the letter in bed, and rose without waking Mina.  She lookedheavy and sleepy and pale, and far from well.  I determined not towake her, but that when I should return from this new search, I wouldarrange for her going back to Exeter.  I think she would be happier inour own home, with her daily tasks to interest her, than in being hereamongst us and in ignorance.  I only saw Dr. Seward for a moment, andtold him where I was off to, promising to come back and tell the restso soon as I should have found out anything.  I drove to Walworth andfound, with some difficulty, Potter's Court.  Mr. Smollet's spellingmisled me, as I asked for Poter's Court instead of Potter's Court.However, when I had found the court, I had no difficulty indiscovering Corcoran's lodging house.When I asked the man who came to the door for the "depite," he shookhis head, and said, "I dunno 'im.  There ain't no such a person 'ere.I never 'eard of 'im in all my bloomin' days.  Don't believe thereain't nobody of that kind livin' 'ere or anywheres."I took out Smollet's letter, and as I read it it seemed to me that thelesson of the spelling of the name of the court might guide me.  "Whatare you?" I asked."I'm the depity," he answered.I saw at once that I was on the right track.  Phonetic spelling hadagain misled me.  A half crown tip put the deputy's knowledge at mydisposal, and I learned that Mr. Bloxam, who had slept off the remainsof his beer on the previous night at Corcoran's, had left for his workat Poplar at five o'clock that morning.  He could not tell me wherethe place of work was situated, but he had a vague idea that it wassome kind of a "new-fangled ware'us," and with this slender clue I hadto start for Poplar.  It was twelve o'clock before I got anysatisfactory hint of such a building, and this I got at a coffee shop,where some workmen were having their dinner.  One of them suggestedthat there was being erected at Cross Angel Street a new "coldstorage" building, and as this suited the condition of a "new-fangledware'us," I at once drove to it.  An interview with a surly gatekeeperand a surlier foreman, both of whom were appeased with the coin of therealm, put me on the track of Bloxam.  He was sent for on mysuggestion that I was willing to pay his days wages to his foreman forthe privilege of asking him a few questions on a private matter.  Hewas a smart enough fellow, though rough of speech and bearing.  When Ihad promised to pay for his information and given him an earnest, hetold me that he had made two journeys between Carfax and a house inPiccadilly, and had taken from this house to the latter nine greatboxes, "main heavy ones," with a horse and cart hired by him for thispurpose.I asked him if he could tell me the number of the house in Piccadilly,to which he replied, "Well, guv'nor, I forgits the number, but it wasonly a few door from a big white church, or somethink of the kind, notlong built.  It was a dusty old 'ouse, too, though nothin' to thedustiness of the 'ouse we tooked the bloomin' boxes from.""How did you get in if both houses were empty?""There was the old party what engaged me a waitin' in the 'ouse atPurfleet.  He 'elped me to lift the boxes and put them in the dray.Curse me, but he was the strongest chap I ever struck, an' him a oldfeller, with a white moustache, one that thin you would think hecouldn't throw a shadder."How this phrase thrilled through me!"Why, 'e took up 'is end o' the boxes like they was pounds of tea, andme a puffin' an' a blowin' afore I could upend mine anyhow, an' I'm nochicken, neither.""How did you get into the house in Piccadilly?" I asked."He was there too.  He must 'a started off and got there afore me, forwhen I rung of the bell he kem an' opened the door 'isself an' 'elpedme carry the boxes into the 'all.""The whole nine?" I asked."Yus, there was five in the first load an' four in the second.  It wasmain dry work, an' I don't so well remember 'ow I got 'ome."I interrupted him, "Were the boxes left in the hall?""Yus, it was a big 'all, an' there was nothin' else in it."I made one more attempt to further matters.  "You didn't have anykey?""Never used no key nor nothink.  The old gent, he opened the door'isself an' shut it again when I druv off.  I don't remember the lasttime, but that was the beer.""And you can't remember the number of the house?""No, sir.  But ye needn't have no difficulty about that.  It's a 'igh'un with a stone front with a bow on it, an' 'igh steps up to thedoor.  I know them steps, 'avin' 'ad to carry the boxes up with threeloafers what come round to earn a copper.  The old gent give themshillin's, an' they seein' they got so much, they wanted more.  But 'etook one of them by the shoulder and was like to throw 'im down thesteps, till the lot of them went away cussin'."I thought that with this description I could find the house, so havingpaid my friend for his information, I started off for Piccadilly.  Ihad gained a new painful experience.  The Count could, it was evident,handle the earth boxes himself.  If so, time was precious, for nowthat he had achieved a certain amount of distribution, he could, bychoosing his own time, complete the task unobserved.  At PiccadillyCircus I discharged my cab, and walked westward.  Beyond the JuniorConstitutional I came across the house described and was satisfiedthat this was the next of the lairs arranged by Dracula.  The houselooked as though it had been long untenanted.  The windows wereencrusted with dust, and the shutters were up.  All the framework wasblack with time, and from the iron the paint had mostly scaled away.It was evident that up to lately there had been a large notice boardin front of the balcony.  It had, however, been roughly torn away, theuprights which had supported it still remaining.  Behind the rails ofthe balcony I saw there were some loose boards, whose raw edges lookedwhite.  I would have given a good deal to have been able to see thenotice board intact, as it would, perhaps, have given some clue to theownership of the house.  I remembered my experience of the investigationand purchase of Carfax, and I could not but feel that if I could findthe former owner there might be some means discovered of gaining accessto the house.There was at present nothing to be learned from the Piccadilly side,and nothing could be done, so I went around to the back to see ifanything could be gathered from this quarter.  The mews were active,the Piccadilly houses being mostly in occupation.  I asked one or twoof the grooms and helpers whom I saw around if they could tell meanything about the empty house.  One of them said that he heard it hadlately been taken, but he couldn't say from whom.  He told me,however, that up to very lately there had been a notice board of "ForSale" up, and that perhaps Mitchell, Sons, & Candy the house agentscould tell me something, as he thought he remembered seeing the nameof that firm on the board.  I did not wish to seem too eager, or tolet my informant know or guess too much, so thanking him in the usualmanner, I strolled away.  It was now growing dusk, and the autumnnight was closing in, so I did not lose any time.  Having learned theaddress of Mitchell, Sons, & Candy from a directory at the Berkeley, Iwas soon at their office in Sackville Street.The gentleman who saw me was particularly suave in manner, butuncommunicative in equal proportion.  Having once told me that thePiccadilly house, which throughout our interview he called a"mansion," was sold, he considered my business as concluded.  When Iasked who had purchased it, he opened his eyes a thought wider, andpaused a few seconds before replying, "It is sold, sir.""Pardon me," I said, with equal politeness, "but I have a specialreason for wishing to know who purchased it."Again he paused longer, and raised his eyebrows still more.  "It issold, sir," was again his laconic reply."Surely," I said, "you do not mind letting me know so much.""But I do mind," he answered.  "The affairs of their clients areabsolutely safe in the hands of Mitchell, Sons, & Candy."This was manifestly a prig of the first water, and there was no usearguing with him.  I thought I had best meet him on his own ground, soI said, "Your clients, sir, are happy in having so resolute a guardianof their confidence.  I am myself a professional man."Here I handed him my card.  "In this instance I am not prompted bycuriosity, I act on the part of Lord Godalming, who wishes to knowsomething of the property which was, he understood, lately for sale."These words put a different complexion on affairs.  He said, "I wouldlike to oblige you if I could, Mr. Harker, and especially would I liketo oblige his lordship.  We once carried out a small matter of rentingsome chambers for him when he was the honourable Arthur Holmwood.  Ifyou will let me have his lordship's address I will consult the Houseon the subject, and will, in any case, communicate with his lordshipby tonight's post.  It will be a pleasure if we can so far deviatefrom our rules as to give the required information to his lordship."I wanted to secure a friend, and not to make an enemy, so I thankedhim, gave the address at Dr. Seward's and came away.  It was now dark,and I was tired and hungry.  I got a cup of tea at the Aerated BreadCompany and came down to Purfleet by the next train.I found all the others at home.  Mina was looking tired and pale, butshe made a gallant effort to be bright and cheerful.  It wrung myheart to think that I had had to keep anything from her and so causedher inquietude.  Thank God, this will be the last night of her lookingon at our conferences, and feeling the sting of our not showing ourconfidence.  It took all my courage to hold to the wise resolution ofkeeping her out of our grim task.  She seems somehow more reconciled,or else the very subject seems to have become repugnant to her, forwhen any accidental allusion is made she actually shudders.  I am gladwe made our resolution in time, as with such a feeling as this, ourgrowing knowledge would be torture to her.I could not tell the others of the day's discovery till we were alone,so after dinner, followed by a little music to save appearances evenamongst ourselves, I took Mina to her room and left her to go to bed.The dear girl was more affectionate with me than ever, and clung to meas though she would detain me, but there was much to be talked of andI came away.  Thank God, the ceasing of telling things has made nodifference between us.When I came down again I found the others all gathered round the firein the study.  In the train I had written my diary so far, and simplyread it off to them as the best means of letting them get abreast ofmy own information.When I had finished Van Helsing said, "This has been a great day'swork, friend Jonathan.  Doubtless we are on the track of the missingboxes.  If we find them all in that house, then our work is near theend.  But if there be some missing, we must search until we find them.Then shall we make our final coup, and hunt the wretch to his realdeath."We all sat silent awhile and all at once Mr. Morris spoke, "Say!  Howare we going to get into that house?""We got into the other," answered Lord Godalming quickly."But, Art, this is different.  We broke house at Carfax, but we hadnight and a walled park to protect us.  It will be a mighty differentthing to commit burglary in Piccadilly, either by day or night.  Iconfess I don't see how we are going to get in unless that agency duckcan find us a key of some sort."Lord Godalming's brows contracted, and he stood up and walked about theroom.  By-and-by he stopped and said, turning from one to another ofus, "Quincey's head is level.  This burglary business is gettingserious.  We got off once all right, but we have now a rare job onhand.  Unless we can find the Count's key basket."As nothing could well be done before morning, and as it would be atleast advisable to wait till Lord Godalming should hear fromMitchell's, we decided not to take any active step before breakfasttime.  For a good while we sat and smoked, discussing the matter inits various lights and bearings.  I took the opportunity of bringingthis diary right up to the moment.  I am very sleepy and shall go tobed . . .Just a line.  Mina sleeps soundly and her breathing is regular.  Herforehead is puckered up into little wrinkles, as though she thinkseven in her sleep.  She is still too pale, but does not look sohaggard as she did this morning.  Tomorrow will, I hope, mend allthis.  She will be herself at home in Exeter.  Oh, but I am sleepy!DR. SEWARD'S DIARY1 October.--I am puzzled afresh about Renfield.  His moods change sorapidly that I find it difficult to keep touch of them, and as theyalways mean something more than his own well-being, they form a morethan interesting study.  This morning, when I went to see him afterhis repulse of Van Helsing, his manner was that of a man commandingdestiny.  He was, in fact, commanding destiny, subjectively.  He didnot really care for any of the things of mere earth, he was in theclouds and looked down on all the weaknesses and wants of us poormortals.I thought I would improve the occasion and learn something, so I askedhim, "What about the flies these times?"He smiled on me in quite a superior sort of way, such a smile as wouldhave become the face of Malvolio, as he answered me, "The fly, my dearsir, has one striking feature.  It's wings are typical of the aerialpowers of the psychic faculties.  The ancients did well when theytypified the soul as a butterfly!"I thought I would push his analogy to its utmost logically, so I saidquickly, "Oh, it is a soul you are after now, is it?"His madness foiled his reason, and a puzzled look spread over his faceas, shaking his head with a decision which I had but seldom seen inhim.He said, "Oh, no, oh no!  I want no souls.  Life is all I want."  Herehe brightened up.  "I am pretty indifferent about it at present.  Lifeis all right.  I have all I want.  You must get a new patient, doctor,if you wish to study zoophagy!"This puzzled me a little, so I drew him on.  "Then you command life.You are a god, I suppose?"He smiled with an ineffably benign superiority.  "Oh no!  Far be itfrom me to arrogate to myself the attributes of the Deity.  I am noteven concerned in His especially spiritual doings.  If I may state myintellectual position I am, so far as concerns things purelyterrestrial, somewhat in the position which Enoch occupiedspiritually!"This was a poser to me.  I could not at the moment recall Enoch'sappositeness, so I had to ask a simple question, though I felt that byso doing I was lowering myself in the eyes of the lunatic.  "And whywith Enoch?""Because he walked with God."I could not see the analogy, but did not like to admit it, so I harkedback to what he had denied.  "So you don't care about life and youdon't want souls.  Why not?"  I put my question quickly and somewhatsternly, on purpose to disconcert him.The effort succeeded, for an instant he unconsciously relapsed intohis old servile manner, bent low before me, and actually fawned uponme as he replied.  "I don't want any souls, indeed, indeed!  I don't.I couldn't use them if I had them.  They would be no manner of use tome.  I couldn't eat them or . . ."He suddenly stopped and the old cunning look spread over his face,like a wind sweep on the surface of the water."And doctor, as to life, what is it after all?  When you've got allyou require, and you know that you will never want, that is all.  Ihave friends, good friends, like you, Dr. Seward."  This was said witha leer of inexpressible cunning.  "I know that I shall never lack themeans of life!"I think that through the cloudiness of his insanity he saw someantagonism in me, for he at once fell back on the last refuge of suchas he, a dogged silence.  After a short time I saw that for thepresent it was useless to speak to him.  He was sulky, and so I cameaway.Later in the day he sent for me.  Ordinarily I would not have comewithout special reason, but just at present I am so interested in himthat I would gladly make an effort.  Besides, I am glad to haveanything to help pass the time.  Harker is out, following up clues,and so are Lord Godalming and Quincey.  Van Helsing sits in my studyporing over the record prepared by the Harkers.  He seems to thinkthat by accurate knowledge of all details he will light up on someclue.  He does not wish to be disturbed in the work, without cause.  Iwould have taken him with me to see the patient, only I thought thatafter his last repulse he might not care to go again.  There was alsoanother reason.  Renfield might not speak so freely before a thirdperson as when he and I were alone.I found him sitting in the middle of the floor on his stool, a posewhich is generally indicative of some mental energy on his part.  WhenI came in, he said at once, as though the question had been waiting onhis lips.  "What about souls?"It was evident then that my surmise had been correct.  Unconsciouscerebration was doing its work, even with the lunatic.  I determinedto have the matter out."What about them yourself?" I asked.He did not reply for a moment but looked all around him, and up anddown, as though he expected to find some inspiration for an answer."I don't want any souls!" he said in a feeble, apologetic way.  Thematter seemed preying on his mind, and so I determined to use it, to"be cruel only to be kind."  So I said, "You like life, and you wantlife?""Oh yes!  But that is all right.  You needn't worry about that!""But," I asked, "how are we to get the life without getting the soulalso?"This seemed to puzzle him, so I followed it up, "A nice time you'llhave some time when you're flying out here, with the souls ofthousands of flies and spiders and birds and cats buzzing andtwittering and moaning all around you.  You've got their lives, youknow, and you must put up with their souls!"Something seemed to affect his imagination, for he put his fingers tohis ears and shut his eyes, screwing them up tightly just as a smallboy does when his face is being soaped.  There was something patheticin it that touched me.  It also gave me a lesson, for it seemed thatbefore me was a child, only a child, though the features were worn,and the stubble on the jaws was white.  It was evident that he wasundergoing some process of mental disturbance, and knowing how hispast moods had interpreted things seemingly foreign to himself, Ithought I would enter into his mind as well as I could and go with him.The first step was to restore confidence, so I asked him, speakingpretty loud so that he would hear me through his closed ears, "Wouldyou like some sugar to get your flies around again?"He seemed to wake up all at once, and shook his head.  With a laugh hereplied, "Not much!  Flies are poor things, after all!"  After a pausehe added, "But I don't want their souls buzzing round me, all thesame.""Or spiders?" I went on."Blow spiders!  What's the use of spiders?  There isn't anything inthem to eat or . . ."  He stopped suddenly as though reminded of aforbidden topic."So, so!" I thought to myself, "this is the second time he hassuddenly stopped at the word 'drink'.  What does it mean?"Renfield seemed himself aware of having made a lapse, for he hurriedon, as though to distract my attention from it, "I don't take anystock at all in such matters.  'Rats and mice and such small deer,' asShakespeare has it, 'chicken feed of the larder' they might be called.I'm past all that sort of nonsense.  You might as well ask a man toeat molecules with a pair of chopsticks, as to try to interest meabout the less carnivora, when I know of what is before me.""I see," I said.  "You want big things that you can make your teethmeet in?  How would you like to breakfast on an elephant?""What ridiculous nonsense you are talking?"  He was getting too wideawake, so I thought I would press him hard."I wonder," I said reflectively, "what an elephant's soul is like!"The effect I desired was obtained, for he at once fell from hishigh-horse and became a child again."I don't want an elephant's soul, or any soul at all!" he said.  For afew moments he sat despondently.  Suddenly he jumped to his feet, withhis eyes blazing and all the signs of intense cerebral excitement."To hell with you and your souls!" he shouted.  "Why do you plague meabout souls?  Haven't I got enough to worry, and pain, to distract mealready, without thinking of souls?"He looked so hostile that I thought he was in for another homicidalfit, so I blew my whistle.The instant, however, that I did so he became calm, and saidapologetically, "Forgive me, Doctor.  I forgot myself.  You do notneed any help.  I am so worried in my mind that I am apt to beirritable.  If you only knew the problem I have to face, and that I amworking out, you would pity, and tolerate, and pardon me.  Pray do notput me in a strait waistcoat.  I want to think and I cannot thinkfreely when my body is confined.  I am sure you will understand!"He had evidently self-control, so when the attendants came I told themnot to mind, and they withdrew.  Renfield watched them go.  When thedoor was closed he said with considerable dignity and sweetness, "Dr.Seward, you have been very considerate towards me.  Believe me that Iam very, very grateful to you!"I thought it well to leave him in this mood, and so I came away.There is certainly something to ponder over in this man's state.Several points seem to make what the American interviewer calls "astory," if one could only get them in proper order.  Here they are:    Will not mention "drinking."    Fears the thought of being burdened with the "soul" of anything.    Has no dread of wanting "life" in the future.    Despises the meaner forms of life altogether, though he dreads    being haunted by their souls.    Logically all these things point one way!  He has assurance of    some kind that he will acquire some higher life.    He dreads the consequence, the burden of a soul.  Then it is a    human life he looks to!    And the assurance . . .?Merciful God!  The Count has been to him, and there is some new schemeof terror afoot!Later.--I went after my round to Van Helsing and told him mysuspicion.  He grew very grave, and after thinking the matter over fora while asked me to take him to Renfield.  I did so.  As we came tothe door we heard the lunatic within singing gaily, as he used to doin the time which now seems so long ago.When we entered we saw with amazement that he had spread out his sugaras of old.  The flies, lethargic with the autumn, were beginning tobuzz into the room.  We tried to make him talk of the subject of ourprevious conversation, but he would not attend.  He went on with hissinging, just as though we had not been present.  He had got a scrapof paper and was folding it into a notebook.  We had to come away asignorant as we went in.His is a curious case indeed.  We must watch him tonight.LETTER, MITCHELL, SONS & CANDY TO LORD GODALMING."1 October."My Lord,"We are at all times only too happy to meet your wishes.  We beg,with regard to the desire of your Lordship, expressed by Mr.Harker on your behalf, to supply the following informationconcerning the sale and purchase of No. 347, Piccadilly.  Theoriginal vendors are the executors of the late Mr. ArchibaldWinter-Suffield.  The purchaser is a foreign nobleman, Count deVille, who effected the purchase himself paying the purchasemoney in notes 'over the counter,' if your Lordship will pardonus using so vulgar an expression.  Beyond this we know nothingwhatever of him."We are, my Lord,"Your Lordship's humble servants,"MITCHELL, SONS & CANDY."DR. SEWARD'S DIARY2 October.--I placed a man in the corridor last night, and told him tomake an accurate note of any sound he might hear from Renfield's room,and gave him instructions that if there should be anything strange hewas to call me.  After dinner, when we had all gathered round the firein the study, Mrs. Harker having gone to bed, we discussed theattempts and discoveries of the day.  Harker was the only one who hadany result, and we are in great hopes that his clue may be animportant one.Before going to bed I went round to the patient's room and looked inthrough the observation trap.  He was sleeping soundly, his heart roseand fell with regular respiration.This morning the man on duty reported to me that a little aftermidnight he was restless and kept saying his prayers somewhat loudly.I asked him if that was all.  He replied that it was all he heard.There was something about his manner, so suspicious that I asked himpoint blank if he had been asleep.  He denied sleep, but admitted tohaving "dozed" for a while.  It is too bad that men cannot be trustedunless they are watched.Today Harker is out following up his clue, and Art and Quincey arelooking after horses.  Godalming thinks that it will be well to havehorses always in readiness, for when we get the information which weseek there will be no time to lose.  We must sterilize all theimported earth between sunrise and sunset.  We shall thus catch theCount at his weakest, and without a refuge to fly to.  Van Helsing isoff to the British Museum looking up some authorities on ancientmedicine.  The old physicians took account of things which theirfollowers do not accept, and the Professor is searching for witch anddemon cures which may be useful to us later.I sometimes think we must be all mad and that we shall wake to sanityin strait waistcoats.Later.--We have met again.  We seem at last to be on the track, andour work of tomorrow may be the beginning of the end.  I wonder ifRenfield's quiet has anything to do with this.  His moods have sofollowed the doings of the Count, that the coming destruction of themonster may be carried to him some subtle way.  If we could only getsome hint as to what passed in his mind, between the time of myargument with him today and his resumption of fly-catching, it mightafford us a valuable clue.  He is now seemingly quiet for a spell . . .Is he?  That wild yell seemed to come from his room . . .The attendant came bursting into my room and told me that Renfield hadsomehow met with some accident.  He had heard him yell, and when hewent to him found him lying on his face on the floor, all covered withblood.  I must go at once . . .CHAPTER 21DR. SEWARD'S DIARY3 October.--Let me put down with exactness all that happened, as wellas I can remember, since last I made an entry.  Not a detail that Ican recall must be forgotten.  In all calmness I must proceed.When I came to Renfield's room I found him lying on the floor on hisleft side in a glittering pool of blood.  When I went to move him, itbecame at once apparent that he had received some terrible injuries.There seemed none of the unity of purpose between the parts of thebody which marks even lethargic sanity.  As the face was exposed Icould see that it was horribly bruised, as though it had been beatenagainst the floor.  Indeed it was from the face wounds that the poolof blood originated.The attendant who was kneeling beside the body said to me as we turnedhim over, "I think, sir, his back is broken.  See, both his right armand leg and the whole side of his face are paralysed."  How such athing could have happened puzzled the attendant beyond measure.  Heseemed quite bewildered, and his brows were gathered in as he said, "Ican't understand the two things.  He could mark his face like that bybeating his own head on the floor.  I saw a young woman do it once atthe Eversfield Asylum before anyone could lay hands on her.  And Isuppose he might have broken his neck by falling out of bed, if he gotin an awkward kink.  But for the life of me I can't imagine how thetwo things occurred.  If his back was broke, he couldn't beat hishead, and if his face was like that before the fall out of bed, therewould be marks of it."I said to him, "Go to Dr. Van Helsing, and ask him to kindly come hereat once.  I want him without an instant's delay."The man ran off, and within a few minutes the Professor, in hisdressing gown and slippers, appeared.  When he saw Renfield on theground, he looked keenly at him a moment, and then turned to me.  Ithink he recognized my thought in my eyes, for he said very quietly,manifestly for the ears of the attendant, "Ah, a sad accident!  Hewill need very careful watching, and much attention.  I shall staywith you myself, but I shall first dress myself.  If you will remain Ishall in a few minutes join you."The patient was now breathing stertorously and it was easy to see thathe had suffered some terrible injury.Van Helsing returned with extraordinary celerity, bearing with him asurgical case.  He had evidently been thinking and had his mind madeup, for almost before he looked at the patient, he whispered to me,"Send the attendant away.  We must be alone with him when he becomesconscious, after the operation."I said, "I think that will do now, Simmons.  We have done all that wecan at present.  You had better go your round, and Dr. Van Helsingwill operate.  Let me know instantly if there be anything unusualanywhere."The man withdrew, and we went into a strict examination of thepatient.  The wounds of the face were superficial.  The real injurywas a depressed fracture of the skull, extending right up through themotor area.The Professor thought a moment and said, "We must reduce the pressureand get back to normal conditions, as far as can be.  The rapidity ofthe suffusion shows the terrible nature of his injury.  The wholemotor area seems affected.  The suffusion of the brain will increasequickly, so we must trephine at once or it may be too late."As he was speaking there was a soft tapping at the door.  I went overand opened it and found in the corridor without, Arthur and Quincey inpajamas and slippers; the former spoke, "I heard your man call up Dr.Van Helsing and tell him of an accident.  So I woke Quincey or rathercalled for him as he was not asleep.  Things are moving too quicklyand too strangely for sound sleep for any of us these times.  I'vebeen thinking that tomorrow night will not see things as they havebeen.  We'll have to look back, and forward a little more than we havedone.  May we come in?"I nodded, and held the door open till they had entered, then I closedit again.  When Quincey saw the attitude and state of the patient, andnoted the horrible pool on the floor, he said softly, "My God!  Whathas happened to him?  Poor, poor devil!"I told him briefly, and added that we expected he would recoverconsciousness after the operation, for a short time, at all events.He went at once and sat down on the edge of the bed, with Godalmingbeside him.  We all watched in patience."We shall wait," said Van Helsing, "just long enough to fix the bestspot for trephining, so that we may most quickly and perfectly removethe blood clot, for it is evident that the haemorrhage is increasing."The minutes during which we waited passed with fearful slowness.  Ihad a horrible sinking in my heart, and from Van Helsing's face Igathered that he felt some fear or apprehension as to what was tocome.  I dreaded the words Renfield might speak.  I was positivelyafraid to think.  But the conviction of what was coming was on me, asI have read of men who have heard the death watch.  The poor man'sbreathing came in uncertain gasps.  Each instant he seemed as thoughhe would open his eyes and speak, but then would follow a prolongedstertorous breath, and he would relapse into a more fixedinsensibility.  Inured as I was to sick beds and death, this suspensegrew and grew upon me.  I could almost hear the beating of my ownheart, and the blood surging through my temples sounded like blowsfrom a hammer.  The silence finally became agonizing.  I looked at mycompanions, one after another, and saw from their flushed faces anddamp brows that they were enduring equal torture.  There was a nervoussuspense over us all, as though overhead some dread bell would pealout powerfully when we should least expect it.At last there came a time when it was evident that the patient wassinking fast.  He might die at any moment.  I looked up at theProfessor and caught his eyes fixed on mine.  His face was sternly setas he spoke, "There is no time to lose.  His words may be worth manylives.  I have been thinking so, as I stood here.  It may be there isa soul at stake!  We shall operate just above the ear."Without another word he made the operation.  For a few moments thebreathing continued to be stertorous.  Then there came a breath soprolonged that it seemed as though it would tear open his chest.Suddenly his eyes opened, and became fixed in a wild, helpless stare.This was continued for a few moments, then it was softened into a gladsurprise, and from his lips came a sigh of relief.  He movedconvulsively, and as he did so, said, "I'll be quiet, Doctor.  Tellthem to take off the strait waistcoat.  I have had a terrible dream,and it has left me so weak that I cannot move.  What's wrong with myface?  It feels all swollen, and it smarts dreadfully."He tried to turn his head, but even with the effort his eyes seemed togrow glassy again so I gently put it back.  Then Van Helsing said in aquiet grave tone, "Tell us your dream, Mr. Renfield."As he heard the voice his face brightened, through its mutilation, andhe said, "That is Dr. Van Helsing.  How good it is of you to be here.Give me some water, my lips are dry, and I shall try to tell you.  Idreamed . . ."He stopped and seemed fainting.  I called quietly to Quincey, "Thebrandy, it is in my study, quick!"  He flew and returned with a glass,the decanter of brandy and a carafe of water.  We moistened theparched lips, and the patient quickly revived.It seemed, however, that his poor injured brain had been working inthe interval, for when he was quite conscious, he looked at mepiercingly with an agonized confusion which I shall never forget, andsaid, "I must not deceive myself.  It was no dream, but all a grimreality."  Then his eyes roved round the room.  As they caught sightof the two figures sitting patiently on the edge of the bed he wenton, "If I were not sure already, I would know from them."For an instant his eyes closed, not with pain or sleep butvoluntarily, as though he were bringing all his faculties to bear.When he opened them he said, hurriedly, and with more energy than hehad yet displayed, "Quick, Doctor, quick, I am dying!  I feel that Ihave but a few minutes, and then I must go back to death, or worse!Wet my lips with brandy again.  I have something that I must saybefore I die.  Or before my poor crushed brain dies anyhow.  Thankyou!  It was that night after you left me, when I implored you to letme go away.  I couldn't speak then, for I felt my tongue was tied.But I was as sane then, except in that way, as I am now.  I was in anagony of despair for a long time after you left me, it seemed hours.Then there came a sudden peace to me.  My brain seemed to become coolagain, and I realized where I was.  I heard the dogs bark behind ourhouse, but not where He was!"As he spoke, Van Helsing's eyes never blinked, but his hand came outand met mine and gripped it hard.  He did not, however, betrayhimself.  He nodded slightly and said, "Go on," in a low voice.Renfield proceeded.  "He came up to the window in the mist, as I hadseen him often before, but he was solid then, not a ghost, and hiseyes were fierce like a man's when angry.  He was laughing with hisred mouth, the sharp white teeth glinted in the moonlight when heturned to look back over the belt of trees, to where the dogs werebarking.  I wouldn't ask him to come in at first, though I knew hewanted to, just as he had wanted all along.  Then he began promisingme things, not in words but by doing them."He was interrupted by a word from the Professor, "How?""By making them happen.  Just as he used to send in the flies when thesun was shining.  Great big fat ones with steel and sapphire on theirwings.  And big moths, in the night, with skull and cross-bones ontheir backs."Van Helsing nodded to him as he whispered to me unconsciously, "TheAcherontia Atropos of the Sphinges, what you call the 'Death's-headMoth'?"The patient went on without stopping, "Then he began to whisper.  'Rats,rats, rats!  Hundreds, thousands, millions of them, and every one alife.  And dogs to eat them, and cats too.  All lives!  All red blood,with years of life in it, and not merely buzzing flies!'  I laughed athim, for I wanted to see what he could do.  Then the dogs howled, awaybeyond the dark trees in His house.  He beckoned me to the window.  Igot up and looked out, and He raised his hands, and seemed to call outwithout using any words.  A dark mass spread over the grass, coming onlike the shape of a flame of fire.  And then He moved the mist to theright and left, and I could see that there were thousands of rats withtheir eyes blazing red, like His only smaller.  He held up his hand,and they all stopped, and I thought he seemed to be saying, 'All theselives will I give you, ay, and many more and greater, throughcountless ages, if you will fall down and worship me!'  And then a redcloud, like the colour of blood, seemed to close over my eyes, andbefore I knew what I was doing, I found myself opening the sash andsaying to Him, 'Come in, Lord and Master!'  The rats were all gone, butHe slid into the room through the sash, though it was only open aninch wide, just as the Moon herself has often come in through thetiniest crack and has stood before me in all her size and splendour."His voice was weaker, so I moistened his lips with the brandy again,and he continued, but it seemed as though his memory had gone onworking in the interval for his story was further advanced.  I wasabout to call him back to the point, but Van Helsing whispered to me,"Let him go on.  Do not interrupt him.  He cannot go back, and maybecould not proceed at all if once he lost the thread of his thought."He proceeded, "All day I waited to hear from him, but he did not sendme anything, not even a blowfly, and when the moon got up I was prettyangry with him.  When he did slide in through the window, though itwas shut, and did not even knock, I got mad with him.  He sneered atme, and his white face looked out of the mist with his red eyesgleaming, and he went on as though he owned the whole place, and I wasno one.  He didn't even smell the same as he went by me.  I couldn'thold him.  I thought that, somehow, Mrs. Harker had come into theroom."The two men sitting on the bed stood up and came over, standing behindhim so that he could not see them, but where they could hear better.They were both silent, but the Professor started and quivered.  Hisface, however, grew grimmer and sterner still.  Renfield went onwithout noticing, "When Mrs. Harker came in to see me this afternoonshe wasn't the same.  It was like tea after the teapot has beenwatered."  Here we all moved, but no one said a word.He went on, "I didn't know that she was here till she spoke, and shedidn't look the same.  I don't care for the pale people.  I like themwith lots of blood in them, and hers all seemed to have run out.  Ididn't think of it at the time, but when she went away I began tothink, and it made me mad to know that He had been taking the life outof her."  I could feel that the rest quivered, as I did; but weremained otherwise still.  "So when He came tonight I was ready forHim.  I saw the mist stealing in, and I grabbed it tight.  I had heardthat madmen have unnatural strength.  And as I knew I was a madman, attimes anyhow, I resolved to use my power.  Ay, and He felt it too, forHe had to come out of the mist to struggle with me.  I held tight, andI thought I was going to win, for I didn't mean Him to take any moreof her life, till I saw His eyes.  They burned into me, and mystrength became like water.  He slipped through it, and when I triedto cling to Him, He raised me up and flung me down.  There was a redcloud before me, and a noise like thunder, and the mist seemed tosteal away under the door."His voice was becoming fainter and his breath more stertorous.  VanHelsing stood up instinctively."We know the worst now," he said.  "He is here, and we know hispurpose.  It may not be too late.  Let us be armed, the same as wewere the other night, but lose no time, there is not an instant tospare."There was no need to put our fear, nay our conviction, into words, weshared them in common.  We all hurried and took from our rooms thesame things that we had when we entered the Count's house.  TheProfessor had his ready, and as we met in the corridor he pointed tothem significantly as he said, "They never leave me, and they shallnot till this unhappy business is over.  Be wise also, my friends.  Itis no common enemy that we deal with Alas!  Alas!  That dear MadamMina should suffer!"  He stopped, his voice was breaking, and I do notknow if rage or terror predominated in my own heart.Outside the Harkers' door we paused.  Art and Quincey held back, andthe latter said, "Should we disturb her?""We must," said Van Helsing grimly.  "If the door be locked, I shallbreak it in.""May it not frighten her terribly?  It is unusual to break into alady's room!"Van Helsing said solemnly, "You are always right.  But this is lifeand death.  All chambers are alike to the doctor.  And even were theynot they are all as one to me tonight.  Friend John, when I turn thehandle, if the door does not open, do you put your shoulder down andshove; and you too, my friends.  Now!"He turned the handle as he spoke, but the door did not yield.  Wethrew ourselves against it.  With a crash it burst open, and we almostfell headlong into the room.  The Professor did actually fall, and Isaw across him as he gathered himself up from hands and knees.  What Isaw appalled me.  I felt my hair rise like bristles on the back of myneck, and my heart seemed to stand still.The moonlight was so bright that through the thick yellow blind theroom was light enough to see.  On the bed beside the window layJonathan Harker, his face flushed and breathing heavily as though in astupor.  Kneeling on the near edge of the bed facing outwards was thewhite-clad figure of his wife.  By her side stood a tall, thin man,clad in black.  His face was turned from us, but the instant we saw weall recognized the Count, in every way, even to the scar on hisforehead.  With his left hand he held both Mrs. Harker's hands,keeping them away with her arms at full tension.  His right handgripped her by the back of the neck, forcing her face down on hisbosom.  Her white nightdress was smeared with blood, and a thin streamtrickled down the man's bare chest which was shown by his torn-opendress.  The attitude of the two had a terrible resemblance to a childforcing a kitten's nose into a saucer of milk to compel it to drink.As we burst into the room, the Count turned his face, and the hellishlook that I had heard described seemed to leap into it.  His eyesflamed red with devilish passion.  The great nostrils of the whiteaquiline nose opened wide and quivered at the edge, and the whitesharp teeth, behind the full lips of the blood dripping mouth, clampedtogether like those of a wild beast.  With a wrench, which threw hisvictim back upon the bed as though hurled from a height, he turned andsprang at us.  But by this time the Professor had gained his feet, andwas holding towards him the envelope which contained the Sacred Wafer.The Count suddenly stopped, just as poor Lucy had done outside thetomb, and cowered back.  Further and further back he cowered, as we,lifting our crucifixes, advanced.  The moonlight suddenly failed, as agreat black cloud sailed across the sky.  And when the gaslight sprangup under Quincey's match, we saw nothing but a faint vapour.  This, aswe looked, trailed under the door, which with the recoil from itsbursting open, had swung back to its old position.  Van Helsing, Art,and I moved forward to Mrs. Harker, who by this time had drawn herbreath and with it had given a scream so wild, so ear-piercing, sodespairing that it seems to me now that it will ring in my ears tillmy dying day.  For a few seconds she lay in her helpless attitude anddisarray.  Her face was ghastly, with a pallor which was accentuatedby the blood which smeared her lips and cheeks and chin.  From herthroat trickled a thin stream of blood.  Her eyes were mad withterror.  Then she put before her face her poor crushed hands, whichbore on their whiteness the red mark of the Count's terrible grip, andfrom behind them came a low desolate wail which made the terriblescream seem only the quick expression of an endless grief.  VanHelsing stepped forward and drew the coverlet gently over her body,whilst Art, after looking at her face for an instant despairingly, ranout of the room.Van Helsing whispered to me, "Jonathan is in a stupor such as we knowthe Vampire can produce.  We can do nothing with poor Madam Mina for afew moments till she recovers herself.  I must wake him!"He dipped the end of a towel in cold water and with it began to flickhim on the face, his wife all the while holding her face between herhands and sobbing in a way that was heart breaking to hear.  I raisedthe blind, and looked out of the window.  There was much moonshine,and as I looked I could see Quincey Morris run across the lawn andhide himself in the shadow of a great yew tree.  It puzzled me tothink why he was doing this.  But at the instant I heard Harker'squick exclamation as he woke to partial consciousness, and turned tothe bed.  On his face, as there might well be, was a look of wildamazement.  He seemed dazed for a few seconds, and then fullconsciousness seemed to burst upon him all at once, and he started up.His wife was aroused by the quick movement, and turned to him with herarms stretched out, as though to embrace him.  Instantly, however, shedrew them in again, and putting her elbows together, held her handsbefore her face, and shuddered till the bed beneath her shook."In God's name what does this mean?" Harker cried out.  "Dr. Seward,Dr. Van Helsing, what is it?  What has happened?  What is wrong?  Mina,dear what is it?  What does that blood mean?  My God, my God!  Has itcome to this!"  And, raising himself to his knees, he beat his handswildly together.  "Good God help us!  Help her!  Oh, help her!"With a quick movement he jumped from bed, and began to pull on hisclothes, all the man in him awake at the need for instant exertion."What has happened?  Tell me all about it!" he cried without pausing."Dr. Van Helsing, you love Mina, I know.  Oh, do something to save her.It cannot have gone too far yet.  Guard her while I look for him!"His wife, through her terror and horror and distress, saw some suredanger to him.  Instantly forgetting her own grief, she seized hold ofhim and cried out."No!  No!  Jonathan, you must not leave me.  I have suffered enoughtonight, God knows, without the dread of his harming you.  You muststay with me.  Stay with these friends who will watch over you!"  Herexpression became frantic as she spoke.  And, he yielding to her, shepulled him down sitting on the bedside, and clung to him fiercely.Van Helsing and I tried to calm them both.  The Professor held up hisgolden crucifix, and said with wonderful calmness, "Do not fear, mydear.  We are here, and whilst this is close to you no foul thing canapproach.  You are safe for tonight, and we must be calm and takecounsel together."She shuddered and was silent, holding down her head on her husband'sbreast.  When she raised it, his white nightrobe was stained withblood where her lips had touched, and where the thin open wound in theneck had sent forth drops.  The instant she saw it she drew back, witha low wail, and whispered, amidst choking sobs."Unclean, unclean!  I must touch him or kiss him no more.  Oh, that itshould be that it is I who am now his worst enemy, and whom he mayhave most cause to fear."To this he spoke out resolutely, "Nonsense, Mina.  It is a shame to meto hear such a word.  I would not hear it of you.  And I shall nothear it from you.  May God judge me by my deserts, and punish me withmore bitter suffering than even this hour, if by any act or will ofmine anything ever come between us!"He put out his arms and folded her to his breast.  And for a while shelay there sobbing.  He looked at us over her bowed head, with eyesthat blinked damply above his quivering nostrils.  His mouth was setas steel.After a while her sobs became less frequent and more faint, and thenhe said to me, speaking with a studied calmness which I felt tried hisnervous power to the utmost."And now, Dr. Seward, tell me all about it.  Too well I know the broadfact.  Tell me all that has been."I told him exactly what had happened and he listened with seemingimpassiveness, but his nostrils twitched and his eyes blazed as I toldhow the ruthless hands of the Count had held his wife in that terribleand horrid position, with her mouth to the open wound in his breast.It interested me, even at that moment, to see that whilst the face ofwhite set passion worked convulsively over the bowed head, the handstenderly and lovingly stroked the ruffled hair.  Just as I hadfinished, Quincey and Godalming knocked at the door.  They entered inobedience to our summons.  Van Helsing looked at me questioningly.  Iunderstood him to mean if we were to take advantage of their coming todivert if possible the thoughts of the unhappy husband and wife fromeach other and from themselves.  So on nodding acquiescence to him heasked them what they had seen or done.  To which Lord Godalminganswered."I could not see him anywhere in the passage, or in any of our rooms.I looked in the study but, though he had been there, he had gone.  Hehad, however . . ."  He stopped suddenly, looking at the poor droopingfigure on the bed.Van Helsing said gravely, "Go on, friend Arthur.  We want here no moreconcealments.  Our hope now is in knowing all.  Tell freely!"So Art went on, "He had been there, and though it could only have beenfor a few seconds, he made rare hay of the place.  All the manuscripthad been burned, and the blue flames were flickering amongst the whiteashes.  The cylinders of your phonograph too were thrown on the fire,and the wax had helped the flames."Here I interrupted.  "Thank God there is the other copy in the safe!"His face lit for a moment, but fell again as he went on.  "I randownstairs then, but could see no sign of him.  I looked intoRenfield's room, but there was no trace there except . . ."  Again hepaused."Go on," said Harker hoarsely.  So he bowed his head and moistening hislips with his tongue, added, "except that the poor fellow is dead."Mrs. Harker raised her head, looking from one to the other of us shesaid solemnly, "God's will be done!"I could not but feel that Art was keeping back something.  But, as Itook it that it was with a purpose, I said nothing.Van Helsing turned to Morris and asked, "And you, friend Quincey, haveyou any to tell?""A little," he answered.  "It may be much eventually, but at present Ican't say.  I thought it well to know if possible where the Countwould go when he left the house.  I did not see him, but I saw a batrise from Renfield's window, and flap westward.  I expected to see himin some shape go back to Carfax, but he evidently sought some otherlair.  He will not be back tonight, for the sky is reddening in theeast, and the dawn is close.  We must work tomorrow!"He said the latter words through his shut teeth.  For a space ofperhaps a couple of minutes there was silence, and I could fancy thatI could hear the sound of our hearts beating.Then Van Helsing said, placing his hand tenderly on Mrs. Harker'shead, "And now, Madam Mina, poor dear, dear, Madam Mina, tell usexactly what happened.  God knows that I do not want that you bepained, but it is need that we know all.  For now more than ever hasall work to be done quick and sharp, and in deadly earnest.  The dayis close to us that must end all, if it may be so, and now is thechance that we may live and learn."The poor dear lady shivered, and I could see the tension of her nervesas she clasped her husband closer to her and bent her head lower andlower still on his breast.  Then she raised her head proudly, and heldout one hand to Van Helsing who took it in his, and after stooping andkissing it reverently, held it fast.  The other hand was locked inthat of her husband, who held his other arm thrown round herprotectingly.  After a pause in which she was evidently ordering herthoughts, she began."I took the sleeping draught which you had so kindly given me, but fora long time it did not act.  I seemed to become more wakeful, andmyriads of horrible fancies began to crowd in upon my mind.  All ofthem connected with death, and vampires, with blood, and pain, andtrouble."  Her husband involuntarily groaned as she turned to him andsaid lovingly, "Do not fret, dear.  You must be brave and strong, andhelp me through the horrible task.  If you only knew what an effort itis to me to tell of this fearful thing at all, you would understandhow much I need your help.  Well, I saw I must try to help themedicine to its work with my will, if it was to do me any good, so Iresolutely set myself to sleep.  Sure enough sleep must soon have cometo me, for I remember no more.  Jonathan coming in had not waked me,for he lay by my side when next I remember.  There was in the room thesame thin white mist that I had before noticed.  But I forget now ifyou know of this.  You will find it in my diary which I shall show youlater.  I felt the same vague terror which had come to me before andthe same sense of some presence.  I turned to wake Jonathan, but foundthat he slept so soundly that it seemed as if it was he who had takenthe sleeping draught, and not I.  I tried, but I could not wake him.This caused me a great fear, and I looked around terrified.  Thenindeed, my heart sank within me.  Beside the bed, as if he had steppedout of the mist, or rather as if the mist had turned into his figure,for it had entirely disappeared, stood a tall, thin man, all inblack.  I knew him at once from the description of the others.  Thewaxen face, the high aquiline nose, on which the light fell in a thinwhite line, the parted red lips, with the sharp white teeth showingbetween, and the red eyes that I had seemed to see in the sunset onthe windows of St. Mary's Church at Whitby.  I knew, too, the red scaron his forehead where Jonathan had struck him.  For an instant myheart stood still, and I would have screamed out, only that I wasparalyzed.  In the pause he spoke in a sort of keen, cutting whisper,pointing as he spoke to Jonathan."'Silence!  If you make a sound I shall take him and dash his brainsout before your very eyes.'  I was appalled and was too bewildered todo or say anything.  With a mocking smile, he placed one hand upon myshoulder and, holding me tight, bared my throat with the other, sayingas he did so, 'First, a little refreshment to reward my exertions.You may as well be quiet.  It is not the first time, or the second,that your veins have appeased my thirst!'  I was bewildered, andstrangely enough, I did not want to hinder him.  I suppose it is apart of the horrible curse that such is, when his touch is on hisvictim.  And oh, my God, my God, pity me!  He placed his reeking lipsupon my throat!"  Her husband groaned again.  She clasped his handharder, and looked at him pityingly, as if he were the injured one,and went on."I felt my strength fading away, and I was in a half swoon.  How longthis horrible thing lasted I know not, but it seemed that a long timemust have passed before he took his foul, awful, sneering mouth away.I saw it drip with the fresh blood!"  The remembrance seemed for a whileto overpower her, and she drooped and would have sunk down but for herhusband's sustaining arm.  With a great effort she recovered herselfand went on."Then he spoke to me mockingly, 'And so you, like the others, wouldplay your brains against mine.  You would help these men to hunt meand frustrate me in my design!  You know now, and they know in partalready, and will know in full before long, what it is to cross mypath.  They should have kept their energies for use closer to home.Whilst they played wits against me, against me who commanded nations,and intrigued for them, and fought for them, hundreds of years beforethey were born, I was countermining them.  And you, their best belovedone, are now to me, flesh of my flesh, blood of my blood, kin of mykin, my bountiful wine-press for a while, and shall be later on mycompanion and my helper.  You shall be avenged in turn, for not one ofthem but shall minister to your needs.  But as yet you are to bepunished for what you have done.  You have aided in thwarting me.  Nowyou shall come to my call.  When my brain says "Come!" to you, youshall cross land or sea to do my bidding.  And to that end this!'"With that he pulled open his shirt, and with his long sharp nailsopened a vein in his breast.  When the blood began to spurt out, hetook my hands in one of his, holding them tight, and with the otherseized my neck and pressed my mouth to the wound, so that I musteither suffocate or swallow some to the . . . Oh, my God!  My God!What have I done?  What have I done to deserve such a fate, I who havetried to walk in meekness and righteousness all my days.  God pityme!  Look down on a poor soul in worse than mortal peril.  And inmercy pity those to whom she is dear!"  Then she began to rub her lipsas though to cleanse them from pollution.As she was telling her terrible story, the eastern sky began toquicken, and everything became more and more clear.  Harker was stilland quiet; but over his face, as the awful narrative went on, came agrey look which deepened and deepened in the morning light, till whenthe first red streak of the coming dawn shot up, the flesh stooddarkly out against the whitening hair.We have arranged that one of us is to stay within call of the unhappypair till we can meet together and arrange about taking action.Of this I am sure.  The sun rises today on no more miserable house inall the great round of its daily course.CHAPTER 22JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL3 October.--As I must do something or go mad, I write this diary.  Itis now six o'clock, and we are to meet in the study in half an hourand take something to eat, for Dr. Van Helsing and Dr. Seward areagreed that if we do not eat we cannot work our best.  Our best willbe, God knows, required today.  I must keep writing at every chance,for I dare not stop to think.  All, big and little, must go down.Perhaps at the end the little things may teach us most.  The teaching,big or little, could not have landed Mina or me anywhere worse than weare today.  However, we must trust and hope.  Poor Mina told me justnow, with the tears running down her dear cheeks, that it is introuble and trial that our faith is tested.  That we must keep ontrusting, and that God will aid us up to the end.  The end!  Oh myGod!  What end? . . . To work!  To work!When Dr. Van Helsing and Dr. Seward had come back from seeing poorRenfield, we went gravely into what was to be done.  First, Dr. Sewardtold us that when he and Dr. Van Helsing had gone down to the roombelow they had found Renfield lying on the floor, all in a heap.  Hisface was all bruised and crushed in, and the bones of the neck werebroken.Dr. Seward asked the attendant who was on duty in the passage if hehad heard anything.  He said that he had been sitting down, heconfessed to half dozing, when he heard loud voices in the room, andthen Renfield had called out loudly several times, "God!  God!  God!"After that there was a sound of falling, and when he entered the roomhe found him lying on the floor, face down, just as the doctors hadseen him.  Van Helsing asked if he had heard "voices" or "a voice,"and he said he could not say.  That at first it had seemed to him asif there were two, but as there was no one in the room it could havebeen only one.  He could swear to it, if required, that the word "God"was spoken by the patient.Dr. Seward said to us, when we were alone, that he did not wish to gointo the matter.  The question of an inquest had to be considered, andit would never do to put forward the truth, as no one would believeit.  As it was, he thought that on the attendant's evidence he couldgive a certificate of death by misadventure in falling from bed.  Incase the coroner should demand it, there would be a formal inquest,necessarily to the same result.When the question began to be discussed as to what should be our nextstep, the very first thing we decided was that Mina should be in fullconfidence.  That nothing of any sort, no matter how painful, shouldbe kept from her.  She herself agreed as to its wisdom, and it waspitiful to see her so brave and yet so sorrowful, and in such a depthof despair."There must be no concealment," she said.  "Alas!  We have had toomuch already.  And besides there is nothing in all the world that cangive me more pain than I have already endured, than I suffer now!Whatever may happen, it must be of new hope or of new courage to me!"Van Helsing was looking at her fixedly as she spoke, and said,suddenly but quietly, "But dear Madam Mina, are you not afraid.  Notfor yourself, but for others from yourself, after what has happened?"Her face grew set in its lines, but her eyes shone with the devotionof a martyr as she answered, "Ah no!  For my mind is made up!""To what?" he asked gently, whilst we were all very still, for each inour own way we had a sort of vague idea of what she meant.Her answer came with direct simplicity, as though she was simplystating a fact, "Because if I find in myself, and I shall watch keenlyfor it, a sign of harm to any that I love, I shall die!""You would not kill yourself?" he asked, hoarsely."I would.  If there were no friend who loved me, who would save mesuch a pain, and so desperate an effort!"  She looked at him meaninglyas she spoke.He was sitting down, but now he rose and came close to her and put hishand on her head as he said solemnly.  "My child, there is such an oneif it were for your good.  For myself I could hold it in my accountwith God to find such an euthanasia for you, even at this moment if itwere best.  Nay, were it safe!  But my child . . ."For a moment he seemed choked, and a great sob rose in his throat.  Hegulped it down and went on, "There are here some who would standbetween you and death.  You must not die.  You must not die by anyhand, but least of all your own.  Until the other, who has fouled yoursweet life, is true dead you must not die.  For if he is still withthe quick Undead, your death would make you even as he is.  No, youmust live!  You must struggle and strive to live, though death wouldseem a boon unspeakable.  You must fight Death himself, though he cometo you in pain or in joy.  By the day, or the night, in safety or inperil!  On your living soul I charge you that you do not die.  Nay,nor think of death, till this great evil be past."The poor dear grew white as death, and shook and shivered, as I haveseen a quicksand shake and shiver at the incoming of the tide.  Wewere all silent.  We could do nothing.  At length she grew more calmand turning to him said sweetly, but oh so sorrowfully, as she heldout her hand, "I promise you, my dear friend, that if God will let melive, I shall strive to do so.  Till, if it may be in His good time,this horror may have passed away from me."She was so good and brave that we all felt that our hearts werestrengthened to work and endure for her, and we began to discuss whatwe were to do.  I told her that she was to have all the papers in thesafe, and all the papers or diaries and phonographs we might hereafteruse, and was to keep the record as she had done before.  She waspleased with the prospect of anything to do, if "pleased" could beused in connection with so grim an interest.As usual Van Helsing had thought ahead of everyone else, and wasprepared with an exact ordering of our work."It is perhaps well," he said, "that at our meeting after our visit toCarfax we decided not to do anything with the earth boxes that laythere.  Had we done so, the Count must have guessed our purpose, andwould doubtless have taken measures in advance to frustrate such aneffort with regard to the others.  But now he does not know ourintentions.  Nay, more, in all probability, he does not know that sucha power exists to us as can sterilize his lairs, so that he cannot usethem as of old."We are now so much further advanced in our knowledge as to theirdisposition that, when we have examined the house in Piccadilly, we maytrack the very last of them.  Today then, is ours, and in it rests ourhope.  The sun that rose on our sorrow this morning guards us in itscourse.  Until it sets tonight, that monster must retain whatever formhe now has.  He is confined within the limitations of his earthlyenvelope.  He cannot melt into thin air nor disappear through cracksor chinks or crannies.  If he go through a doorway, he must open thedoor like a mortal.  And so we have this day to hunt out all his lairsand sterilize them.  So we shall, if we have not yet catch him anddestroy him, drive him to bay in some place where the catching and thedestroying shall be, in time, sure."Here I started up for I could not contain myself at the thought thatthe minutes and seconds so preciously laden with Mina's life andhappiness were flying from us, since whilst we talked action wasimpossible.  But Van Helsing held up his hand warningly."Nay, friend Jonathan," he said, "in this, the quickest way home isthe longest way, so your proverb say.  We shall all act and act withdesperate quick, when the time has come.  But think, in all probablethe key of the situation is in that house in Piccadilly.  The Countmay have many houses which he has bought.  Of them he will have deedsof purchase, keys and other things.  He will have paper that he writeon.  He will have his book of cheques.  There are many belongings thathe must have somewhere.  Why not in this place so central, so quiet,where he come and go by the front or the back at all hours, when inthe very vast of the traffic there is none to notice.  We shall gothere and search that house.  And when we learn what it holds, then wedo what our friend Arthur call, in his phrases of hunt 'stop theearths' and so we run down our old fox, so?  Is it not?""Then let us come at once," I cried, "we are wasting the precious,precious time!"The Professor did not move, but simply said, "And how are we to getinto that house in Piccadilly?""Any way!" I cried.  "We shall break in if need be.""And your police?  Where will they be, and what will they say?"I was staggered, but I knew that if he wished to delay he had a goodreason for it.  So I said, as quietly as I could, "Don't wait morethan need be.  You know, I am sure, what torture I am in.""Ah, my child, that I do.  And indeed there is no wish of me to add toyour anguish.  But just think, what can we do, until all the world beat movement.  Then will come our time.  I have thought and thought,and it seems to me that the simplest way is the best of all.  Now wewish to get into the house, but we have no key.  Is it not so?"  Inodded."Now suppose that you were, in truth, the owner of that house, andcould not still get in.  And think there was to you no conscience ofthe housebreaker, what would you do?""I should get a respectable locksmith, and set him to work to pick thelock for me.""And your police, they would interfere, would they not?""Oh no!  Not if they knew the man was properly employed.""Then," he looked at me as keenly as he spoke, "all that is in doubtis the conscience of the employer, and the belief of your policemen asto whether or not that employer has a good conscience or a bad one.Your police must indeed be zealous men and clever, oh so clever, inreading the heart, that they trouble themselves in such matter.  No,no, my friend Jonathan, you go take the lock off a hundred emptyhouses in this your London, or of any city in the world, and if you doit as such things are rightly done, and at the time such things arerightly done, no one will interfere.  I have read of a gentleman whoowned a so fine house in London, and when he went for months of summerto Switzerland and lock up his house, some burglar come and brokewindow at back and got in.  Then he went and made open the shutters infront and walk out and in through the door, before the very eyes ofthe police.  Then he have an auction in that house, and advertise it,and put up big notice.  And when the day come he sell off by a greatauctioneer all the goods of that other man who own them.  Then he goto a builder, and he sell him that house, making an agreement that hepull it down and take all away within a certain time.  And your policeand other authority help him all they can.  And when that owner comeback from his holiday in Switzerland he find only an empty hole wherehis house had been.  This was all done en regle, and in our work weshall be en regle too.  We shall not go so early that the policemenwho have then little to think of, shall deem it strange.  But we shallgo after ten o'clock, when there are many about, and such things wouldbe done were we indeed owners of the house."I could not but see how right he was and the terrible despair ofMina's face became relaxed in thought.  There was hope in such goodcounsel.Van Helsing went on, "When once within that house we may find moreclues.  At any rate some of us can remain there whilst the rest findthe other places where there be more earth boxes, at Bermondsey andMile End."Lord Godalming stood up.  "I can be of some use here," he said.  "Ishall wire to my people to have horses and carriages where they willbe most convenient.""Look here, old fellow," said Morris, "it is a capital idea to haveall ready in case we want to go horse backing, but don't you thinkthat one of your snappy carriages with its heraldic adornments in abyway of Walworth or Mile End would attract too much attention for ourpurpose?  It seems to me that we ought to take cabs when we go southor east.  And even leave them somewhere near the neighbourhood we aregoing to.""Friend Quincey is right!" said the Professor.  "His head is what youcall in plane with the horizon.  It is a difficult thing that we go todo, and we do not want no peoples to watch us if so it may."Mina took a growing interest in everything and I was rejoiced to seethat the exigency of affairs was helping her to forget for a time theterrible experience of the night.  She was very, very pale, almostghastly, and so thin that her lips were drawn away, showing her teethin somewhat of prominence.  I did not mention this last, lest itshould give her needless pain, but it made my blood run cold in myveins to think of what had occurred with poor Lucy when the Count hadsucked her blood.  As yet there was no sign of the teeth growingsharper, but the time as yet was short, and there was time for fear.When we came to the discussion of the sequence of our efforts and ofthe disposition of our forces, there were new sources of doubt.  Itwas finally agreed that before starting for Piccadilly we shoulddestroy the Count's lair close at hand.  In case he should find it outtoo soon, we should thus be still ahead of him in our work ofdestruction.  And his presence in his purely material shape, and athis weakest, might give us some new clue.As to the disposal of forces, it was suggested by the Professor that,after our visit to Carfax, we should all enter the house inPiccadilly.  That the two doctors and I should remain there, whilstLord Godalming and Quincey found the lairs at Walworth and Mile Endand destroyed them.  It was possible, if not likely, the Professorurged, that the Count might appear in Piccadilly during the day, andthat if so we might be able to cope with him then and there.  At anyrate, we might be able to follow him in force.  To this plan Istrenuously objected, and so far as my going was concerned, for I saidthat I intended to stay and protect Mina.  I thought that my mind wasmade up on the subject, but Mina would not listen to my objection.  Shesaid that there might be some law matter in which I could be useful.That amongst the Count's papers might be some clue which I couldunderstand out of my experience in Transylvania.  And that, as it was,all the strength we could muster was required to cope with the Count'sextraordinary power.  I had to give in, for Mina's resolution wasfixed.  She said that it was the last hope for her that we should allwork together."As for me," she said, "I have no fear.  Things have been as bad asthey can be.  And whatever may happen must have in it some element ofhope or comfort.  Go, my husband!  God can, if He wishes it, guard meas well alone as with any one present."So I started up crying out, "Then in God's name let us come at once,for we are losing time.  The Count may come to Piccadilly earlier thanwe think.""Not so!" said Van Helsing, holding up his hand."But why?" I asked."Do you forget," he said, with actually a smile, "that last night hebanqueted heavily, and will sleep late?"Did I forget!  Shall I ever . . . can I ever!  Can any of us everforget that terrible scene!  Mina struggled hard to keep her bravecountenance, but the pain overmastered her and she put her handsbefore her face, and shuddered whilst she moaned.  Van Helsing had notintended to recall her frightful experience.  He had simply lost sightof her and her part in the affair in his intellectual effort.When it struck him what he said, he was horrified at histhoughtlessness and tried to comfort her."Oh, Madam Mina," he said, "dear, dear, Madam Mina, alas!  That I ofall who so reverence you should have said anything so forgetful.  Thesestupid old lips of mine and this stupid old head do not deserve so,but you will forget it, will you not?"  He bent low beside her as hespoke.She took his hand, and looking at him through her tears, saidhoarsely, "No, I shall not forget, for it is well that I remember.And with it I have so much in memory of you that is sweet, that I takeit all together.  Now, you must all be going soon.  Breakfast isready, and we must all eat that we may be strong."Breakfast was a strange meal to us all.  We tried to be cheerful andencourage each other, and Mina was the brightest and most cheerful ofus.  When it was over, Van Helsing stood up and said, "Now, my dearfriends, we go forth to our terrible enterprise.  Are we all armed, aswe were on that night when first we visited our enemy's lair.  Armedagainst ghostly as well as carnal attack?"We all assured him."Then it is well.  Now, Madam Mina, you are in any case quite safehere until the sunset.  And before then we shall return . . . if . . .We shall return!  But before we go let me see you armed against personalattack.  I have myself, since you came down, prepared your chamber bythe placing of things of which we know, so that He may not enter.  Nowlet me guard yourself.  On your forehead I touch this piece of SacredWafer in the name of the Father, the Son, and . . ."There was a fearful scream which almost froze our hearts to hear.  Ashe had placed the Wafer on Mina's forehead, it had seared it . . . hadburned into the flesh as though it had been a piece of white-hot metal.My poor darling's brain had told her the significance of the fact asquickly as her nerves received the pain of it, and the two sooverwhelmed her that her overwrought nature had its voice in thatdreadful scream.But the words to her thought came quickly.  The echo of the scream hadnot ceased to ring on the air when there came the reaction, and shesank on her knees on the floor in an agony of abasement.  Pulling herbeautiful hair over her face, as the leper of old his mantle, shewailed out."Unclean!  Unclean!  Even the Almighty shuns my polluted flesh!  Imust bear this mark of shame upon my forehead until the JudgementDay."They all paused.  I had thrown myself beside her in an agony ofhelpless grief, and putting my arms around held her tight.  For a fewminutes our sorrowful hearts beat together, whilst the friends aroundus turned away their eyes that ran tears silently.  Then Van Helsingturned and said gravely.  So gravely that I could not help feelingthat he was in some way inspired, and was stating things outsidehimself."It may be that you may have to bear that mark till God himself seefit, as He most surely shall, on the Judgement Day, to redress allwrongs of the earth and of His children that He has placed thereon.And oh, Madam Mina, my dear, my dear, may we who love you be there tosee, when that red scar, the sign of God's knowledge of what has been,shall pass away, and leave your forehead as pure as the heart we know.For so surely as we live, that scar shall pass away when God seesright to lift the burden that is hard upon us.  Till then we bear ourCross, as His Son did in obedience to His Will.  It may be that we arechosen instruments of His good pleasure, and that we ascend to Hisbidding as that other through stripes and shame.  Through tears andblood.  Through doubts and fear, and all that makes the differencebetween God and man."There was hope in his words, and comfort.  And they made forresignation.  Mina and I both felt so, and simultaneously we each tookone of the old man's hands and bent over and kissed it.  Then withouta word we all knelt down together, and all holding hands, swore to betrue to each other.  We men pledged ourselves to raise the veil ofsorrow from the head of her whom, each in his own way, we loved.  Andwe prayed for help and guidance in the terrible task which lay beforeus.  It was then time to start.  So I said farewell to Mina, a partingwhich neither of us shall forget to our dying day, and we set out.To one thing I have made up my mind.  If we find out that Mina must bea vampire in the end, then she shall not go into that unknown andterrible land alone.  I suppose it is thus that in old times onevampire meant many.  Just as their hideous bodies could only rest insacred earth, so the holiest love was the recruiting sergeant fortheir ghastly ranks.We entered Carfax without trouble and found all things the same as onthe first occasion.  It was hard to believe that amongst so prosaicsurroundings of neglect and dust and decay there was any ground forsuch fear as already we knew.  Had not our minds been made up, and hadthere not been terrible memories to spur us on, we could hardly haveproceeded with our task.  We found no papers, or any sign of use inthe house.  And in the old chapel the great boxes looked just as wehad seen them last.Dr. Van Helsing said to us solemnly as we stood before him, "And now,my friends, we have a duty here to do.  We must sterilize this earth,so sacred of holy memories, that he has brought from a far distantland for such fell use.  He has chosen this earth because it has beenholy.  Thus we defeat him with his own weapon, for we make it moreholy still.  It was sanctified to such use of man, now we sanctify itto God."As he spoke he took from his bag a screwdriver and a wrench, and verysoon the top of one of the cases was thrown open.  The earth smelledmusty and close, but we did not somehow seem to mind, for ourattention was concentrated on the Professor.  Taking from his box apiece of the Sacred Wafer he laid it reverently on the earth, and thenshutting down the lid began to screw it home, we aiding him as heworked.One by one we treated in the same way each of the great boxes, andleft them as we had found them to all appearance.  But in each was aportion of the Host.  When we closed the door behind us, the Professorsaid solemnly, "So much is already done.  It may be that with all theothers we can be so successful, then the sunset of this evening mayshine of Madam Mina's forehead all white as ivory and with no stain!"As we passed across the lawn on our way to the station to catch ourtrain we could see the front of the asylum.  I looked eagerly, and inthe window of my own room saw Mina.  I waved my hand to her, andnodded to tell that our work there was successfully accomplished.  Shenodded in reply to show that she understood.  The last I saw, she waswaving her hand in farewell.  It was with a heavy heart that we soughtthe station and just caught the train, which was steaming in as wereached the platform.  I have written this in the train.Piccadilly, 12:30 o'clock.--Just before we reached Fenchurch StreetLord Godalming said to me, "Quincey and I will find a locksmith.  Youhad better not come with us in case there should be any difficulty.For under the circumstances it wouldn't seem so bad for us to breakinto an empty house.  But you are a solicitor and the Incorporated LawSociety might tell you that you should have known better."I demurred as to my not sharing any danger even of odium, but he wenton, "Besides, it will attract less attention if there are not too manyof us.  My title will make it all right with the locksmith, and withany policeman that may come along.  You had better go with Jack andthe Professor and stay in the Green Park.  Somewhere in sight of thehouse, and when you see the door opened and the smith has gone away,do you all come across.  We shall be on the lookout for you, and shalllet you in.""The advice is good!" said Van Helsing, so we said no more.  Godalmingand Morris hurried off in a cab, we following in another.  At thecorner of Arlington Street our contingent got out and strolled intothe Green Park.  My heart beat as I saw the house on which so much ofour hope was centred, looming up grim and silent in its desertedcondition amongst its more lively and spruce-looking neighbours.  Wesat down on a bench within good view, and began to smoke cigars so asto attract as little attention as possible.  The minutes seemed topass with leaden feet as we waited for the coming of the others.At length we saw a four-wheeler drive up.  Out of it, in leisurelyfashion, got Lord Godalming and Morris.  And down from the boxdescended a thick-set working man with his rush-woven basket of tools.Morris paid the cabman, who touched his hat and drove away.  Togetherthe two ascended the steps, and Lord Godalming pointed out what hewanted done.  The workman took off his coat leisurely and hung it onone of the spikes of the rail, saying something to a policeman whojust then sauntered along.  The policeman nodded acquiescence, and theman kneeling down placed his bag beside him.  After searching throughit, he took out a selection of tools which he proceeded to lay besidehim in orderly fashion.  Then he stood up, looked in the keyhole, blewinto it, and turning to his employers, made some remark.  LordGodalming smiled, and the man lifted a good sized bunch of keys.Selecting one of them, he began to probe the lock, as if feeling hisway with it.  After fumbling about for a bit he tried a second, andthen a third.  All at once the door opened under a slight push fromhim, and he and the two others entered the hall.  We sat still.  Myown cigar burnt furiously, but Van Helsing's went cold altogether.  Wewaited patiently as we saw the workman come out and bring his bag.Then he held the door partly open, steadying it with his knees, whilsthe fitted a key to the lock.  This he finally handed to LordGodalming, who took out his purse and gave him something.  The mantouched his hat, took his bag, put on his coat and departed.  Not asoul took the slightest notice of the whole transaction.When the man had fairly gone, we three crossed the street and knockedat the door.  It was immediately opened by Quincey Morris, beside whomstood Lord Godalming lighting a cigar."The place smells so vilely," said the latter as we came in.  It didindeed smell vilely.  Like the old chapel at Carfax.  And with ourprevious experience it was plain to us that the Count had been usingthe place pretty freely.  We moved to explore the house, all keepingtogether in case of attack, for we knew we had a strong and wily enemyto deal with, and as yet we did not know whether the Count might notbe in the house.In the dining room, which lay at the back of the hall, we found eightboxes of earth.  Eight boxes only out of the nine which we sought!Our work was not over, and would never be until we should have foundthe missing box.First we opened the shutters of the window which looked out across anarrow stone flagged yard at the blank face of a stable, pointed tolook like the front of a miniature house.  There were no windows init, so we were not afraid of being overlooked.  We did not lose anytime in examining the chests.  With the tools which we had broughtwith us we opened them, one by one, and treated them as we had treatedthose others in the old chapel.  It was evident to us that the Countwas not at present in the house, and we proceeded to search for any ofhis effects.After a cursory glance at the rest of the rooms, from basement toattic, we came to the conclusion that the dining room contained anyeffects which might belong to the Count.  And so we proceeded tominutely examine them.  They lay in a sort of orderly disorder on thegreat dining room table.There were title deeds of the Piccadilly house in a great bundle,deeds of the purchase of the houses at Mile End and Bermondsey,notepaper, envelopes, and pens and ink.  All were covered up in thinwrapping paper to keep them from the dust.  There were also a clothesbrush, a brush and comb, and a jug and basin.  The latter containingdirty water which was reddened as if with blood.  Last of all was alittle heap of keys of all sorts and sizes, probably those belongingto the other houses.When we had examined this last find, Lord Godalming and Quincey Morristaking accurate notes of the various addresses of the houses in theEast and the South, took with them the keys in a great bunch, and setout to destroy the boxes in these places.  The rest of us are, withwhat patience we can, waiting their return, or the coming of theCount.CHAPTER 23DR. SEWARD'S DIARY3 October.--The time seemed terribly long whilst we were waiting forthe coming of Godalming and Quincey Morris.  The Professor tried tokeep our minds active by using them all the time.  I could see hisbeneficent purpose, by the side glances which he threw from time totime at Harker.  The poor fellow is overwhelmed in a misery that isappalling to see.  Last night he was a frank, happy-looking man, withstrong, youthful face, full of energy, and with dark brown hair.Today he is a drawn, haggard old man, whose white hair matches wellwith the hollow burning eyes and grief-written lines of his face.  Hisenergy is still intact.  In fact, he is like a living flame.  This mayyet be his salvation, for if all go well, it will tide him over thedespairing period.  He will then, in a kind of way, wake again to therealities of life.  Poor fellow, I thought my own trouble was badenough, but his . . . !The Professor knows this well enough, and is doing his best to keephis mind active.  What he has been saying was, under thecircumstances, of absorbing interest.  So well as I can remember, hereit is:"I have studied, over and over again since they came into my hands,all the papers relating to this monster, and the more I have studied,the greater seems the necessity to utterly stamp him out.  All throughthere are signs of his advance.  Not only of his power, but of hisknowledge of it.  As I learned from the researches of my friendArminius of Buda-Pesth, he was in life a most wonderful man.  Soldier,statesman, and alchemist--which latter was the highest development ofthe science knowledge of his time.  He had a mighty brain, a learningbeyond compare, and a heart that knew no fear and no remorse.  Hedared even to attend the Scholomance, and there was no branch ofknowledge of his time that he did not essay."Well, in him the brain powers survived the physical death.  Though itwould seem that memory was not all complete.  In some faculties ofmind he has been, and is, only a child.  But he is growing, and somethings that were childish at the first are now of man's stature.  Heis experimenting, and doing it well.  And if it had not been that wehave crossed his path he would be yet, he may be yet if we fail, thefather or furtherer of a new order of beings, whose road must leadthrough Death, not Life."Harker groaned and said, "And this is all arrayed against my darling!But how is he experimenting?  The knowledge may help us to defeathim!""He has all along, since his coming, been trying his power, slowly butsurely.  That big child-brain of his is working.  Well for us, it isas yet a child-brain.  For had he dared, at the first, to attemptcertain things he would long ago have been beyond our power.  However,he means to succeed, and a man who has centuries before him can affordto wait and to go slow.  Festina lente may well be his motto.""I fail to understand," said Harker wearily.  "Oh, do be more plain tome!  Perhaps grief and trouble are dulling my brain."The Professor laid his hand tenderly on his shoulder as he spoke, "Ah,my child, I will be plain.  Do you not see how, of late, this monsterhas been creeping into knowledge experimentally.  How he has beenmaking use of the zoophagous patient to effect his entry into friendJohn's home.  For your Vampire, though in all afterwards he can comewhen and how he will, must at the first make entry only when askedthereto by an inmate.  But these are not his most importantexperiments.  Do we not see how at the first all these so great boxeswere moved by others.  He knew not then but that must be so.  But allthe time that so great child-brain of his was growing, and he began toconsider whether he might not himself move the box.  So he began tohelp.  And then, when he found that this be all right, he try to movethem all alone.  And so he progress, and he scatter these graves ofhim.  And none but he know where they are hidden."He may have intend to bury them deep in the ground.  So that only heuse them in the night, or at such time as he can change his form, theydo him equal well, and none may know these are his hiding place!  But,my child, do not despair, this knowledge came to him just too late!Already all of his lairs but one be sterilize as for him.  And beforethe sunset this shall be so.  Then he have no place where he can moveand hide.  I delayed this morning that so we might be sure.  Is therenot more at stake for us than for him?  Then why not be more carefulthan him?  By my clock it is one hour and already, if all be well,friend Arthur and Quincey are on their way to us.  Today is our day,and we must go sure, if slow, and lose no chance.  See!  There arefive of us when those absent ones return."Whilst we were speaking we were startled by a knock at the hall door,the double postman's knock of the telegraph boy.  We all moved out tothe hall with one impulse, and Van Helsing, holding up his hand to usto keep silence, stepped to the door and opened it.  The boy handed ina dispatch.  The Professor closed the door again, and after looking atthe direction, opened it and read aloud."Look out for D.  He has just now, 12:45, come from Carfaxhurriedly and hastened towards the South.  He seems to begoing the round and may want to see you:  Mina."There was a pause, broken by Jonathan Harker's voice, "Now, God bethanked, we shall soon meet!"Van Helsing turned to him quickly and said, "God will act in His ownway and time.  Do not fear, and do not rejoice as yet.  For what wewish for at the moment may be our own undoings.""I care for nothing now," he answered hotly, "except to wipe out thisbrute from the face of creation.  I would sell my soul to do it!""Oh, hush, hush, my child!" said Van Helsing.  "God does not purchasesouls in this wise, and the Devil, though he may purchase, does notkeep faith.  But God is merciful and just, and knows your pain andyour devotion to that dear Madam Mina.  Think you, how her pain wouldbe doubled, did she but hear your wild words.  Do not fear any of us,we are all devoted to this cause, and today shall see the end.  Thetime is coming for action.  Today this Vampire is limit to the powersof man, and till sunset he may not change.  It will take him time toarrive here, see it is twenty minutes past one, and there are yet sometimes before he can hither come, be he never so quick.  What we musthope for is that my Lord Arthur and Quincey arrive first."About half an hour after we had received Mrs. Harker's telegram, therecame a quiet, resolute knock at the hall door.  It was just anordinary knock, such as is given hourly by thousands of gentlemen, butit made the Professor's heart and mine beat loudly.  We looked at eachother, and together moved out into the hall.  We each held ready touse our various armaments, the spiritual in the left hand, the mortalin the right.  Van Helsing pulled back the latch, and holding the doorhalf open, stood back, having both hands ready for action.  Thegladness of our hearts must have shown upon our faces when on thestep, close to the door, we saw Lord Godalming and Quincey Morris.They came quickly in and closed the door behind them, the formersaying, as they moved along the hall:"It is all right.  We found both places.  Six boxes in each and wedestroyed them all.""Destroyed?" asked the Professor."For him!"  We were silent for a minute, and then Quincey said,"There's nothing to do but to wait here.  If, however, he doesn't turnup by five o'clock, we must start off.  For it won't do to leave Mrs.Harker alone after sunset.""He will be here before long now," said Van Helsing, who had beenconsulting his pocketbook.  "Nota bene, in Madam's telegram he wentsouth from Carfax.  That means he went to cross the river, and hecould only do so at slack of tide, which should be something beforeone o'clock.  That he went south has a meaning for us.  He is as yetonly suspicious, and he went from Carfax first to the place where hewould suspect interference least.  You must have been at Bermondseyonly a short time before him.  That he is not here already shows thathe went to Mile End next.  This took him some time, for he would thenhave to be carried over the river in some way.  Believe me, myfriends, we shall not have long to wait now.  We should have readysome plan of attack, so that we may throw away no chance.  Hush, thereis no time now.  Have all your arms!  Be ready!"  He held up a warninghand as he spoke, for we all could hear a key softly inserted in thelock of the hall door.I could not but admire, even at such a moment, the way in which adominant spirit asserted itself.  In all our hunting parties andadventures in different parts of the world, Quincey Morris had alwaysbeen the one to arrange the plan of action, and Arthur and I had beenaccustomed to obey him implicitly.  Now, the old habit seemed to berenewed instinctively.  With a swift glance around the room, he atonce laid out our plan of attack, and without speaking a word, with agesture, placed us each in position.  Van Helsing, Harker, and I werejust behind the door, so that when it was opened the Professor couldguard it whilst we two stepped between the incomer and the door.Godalming behind and Quincey in front stood just out of sight ready tomove in front of the window.  We waited in a suspense that made theseconds pass with nightmare slowness.  The slow, careful steps camealong the hall.  The Count was evidently prepared for some surprise,at least he feared it.Suddenly with a single bound he leaped into the room.  Winning a waypast us before any of us could raise a hand to stay him.  There wassomething so pantherlike in the movement, something so unhuman, thatit seemed to sober us all from the shock of his coming.  The first toact was Harker, who with a quick movement, threw himself before thedoor leading into the room in the front of the house.  As the Countsaw us, a horrible sort of snarl passed over his face, showing theeyeteeth long and pointed.  But the evil smile as quickly passed intoa cold stare of lion-like disdain.  His expression again changed as,with a single impulse, we all advanced upon him.  It was a pity thatwe had not some better organized plan of attack, for even at themoment I wondered what we were to do.  I did not myself know whetherour lethal weapons would avail us anything.Harker evidently meant to try the matter, for he had ready his greatKukri knife and made a fierce and sudden cut at him.  The blow was apowerful one; only the diabolical quickness of the Count's leap backsaved him.  A second less and the trenchant blade had shorn throughhis heart.  As it was, the point just cut the cloth of his coat,making a wide gap whence a bundle of bank notes and a streamof gold fell out.  The expression of the Count's face was so hellish,that for a moment I feared for Harker, though I saw him throw theterrible knife aloft again for another stroke.  Instinctively I movedforward with a protective impulse, holding the Crucifix and Wafer inmy left hand.  I felt a mighty power fly along my arm, and it waswithout surprise that I saw the monster cower back before a similarmovement made spontaneously by each one of us.  It would be impossibleto describe the expression of hate and baffled malignity, of anger andhellish rage, which came over the Count's face.  His waxen hue becamegreenish-yellow by the contrast of his burning eyes, and the red scaron the forehead showed on the pallid skin like a palpitating wound.The next instant, with a sinuous dive he swept under Harker's arm, erehis blow could fall, and grasping a handful of the money from thefloor, dashed across the room, threw himself at the window.  Amid thecrash and glitter of the falling glass, he tumbled into the flaggedarea below.  Through the sound of the shivering glass I could hear the"ting" of the gold, as some of the sovereigns fell on the flagging.We ran over and saw him spring unhurt from the ground.  He, rushing upthe steps, crossed the flagged yard, and pushed open the stable door.There he turned and spoke to us."You think to baffle me, you with your pale faces all in a row, likesheep in a butcher's.  You shall be sorry yet, each one of you!  Youthink you have left me without a place to rest, but I have more.  Myrevenge is just begun!  I spread it over centuries, and time is on myside.  Your girls that you all love are mine already.  And throughthem you and others shall yet be mine, my creatures, to do my biddingand to be my jackals when I want to feed.  Bah!"With a contemptuous sneer, he passed quickly through the door, and weheard the rusty bolt creak as he fastened it behind him.  A doorbeyond opened and shut.  The first of us to speak was the Professor.Realizing the difficulty of following him through the stable, we movedtoward the hall."We have learnt something . . . much!  Notwithstanding his brave words,he fears us.  He fears time, he fears want!  For if not, why he hurryso?  His very tone betray him, or my ears deceive.  Why take thatmoney?  You follow quick.  You are hunters of the wild beast, andunderstand it so.  For me, I make sure that nothing here may be of useto him, if so that he returns."As he spoke he put the money remaining in his pocket, took the titledeeds in the bundle as Harker had left them, and swept the remainingthings into the open fireplace, where he set fire to them with amatch.Godalming and Morris had rushed out into the yard, and Harker hadlowered himself from the window to follow the Count.  He had, however,bolted the stable door, and by the time they had forced it open therewas no sign of him.  Van Helsing and I tried to make inquiry at theback of the house.  But the mews was deserted and no one had seen himdepart.It was now late in the afternoon, and sunset was not far off.  We hadto recognize that our game was up.  With heavy hearts we agreed withthe Professor when he said, "Let us go back to Madam Mina.  Poor, poordear Madam Mina.  All we can do just now is done, and we can there, atleast, protect her.  But we need not despair.  There is but one moreearth box, and we must try to find it.  When that is done all may yetbe well."I could see that he spoke as bravely as he could to comfort Harker.The poor fellow was quite broken down, now and again he gave a lowgroan which he could not suppress.  He was thinking of his wife.With sad hearts we came back to my house, where we found Mrs. Harkerwaiting us, with an appearance of cheerfulness which did honour to herbravery and unselfishness.  When she saw our faces, her own became aspale as death.  For a second or two her eyes were closed as if shewere in secret prayer.And then she said cheerfully, "I can never thank you all enough.  Oh,my poor darling!"As she spoke, she took her husband's grey head in her hands and kissedit."Lay your poor head here and rest it.  All will yet be well, dear!  Godwill protect us if He so will it in His good intent."  The poor fellowgroaned.  There was no place for words in his sublime misery.We had a sort of perfunctory supper together, and I think it cheeredus all up somewhat.  It was, perhaps, the mere animal heat of food tohungry people, for none of us had eaten anything since breakfast, orthe sense of companionship may have helped us, but anyhow we were allless miserable, and saw the morrow as not altogether without hope.True to our promise, we told Mrs. Harker everything which had passed.And although she grew snowy white at times when danger had seemed tothreaten her husband, and red at others when his devotion to her wasmanifested, she listened bravely and with calmness.  When we came tothe part where Harker had rushed at the Count so recklessly, she clungto her husband's arm, and held it tight as though her clinging couldprotect him from any harm that might come.  She said nothing, however,till the narration was all done, and matters had been brought up tothe present time.Then without letting go her husband's hand she stood up amongst us andspoke.  Oh, that I could give any idea of the scene.  Of that sweet,sweet, good, good woman in all the radiant beauty of her youth andanimation, with the red scar on her forehead, of which she wasconscious, and which we saw with grinding of our teeth, rememberingwhence and how it came.  Her loving kindness against our grim hate.Her tender faith against all our fears and doubting.  And we, knowingthat so far as symbols went, she with all her goodness and purity andfaith, was outcast from God."Jonathan," she said, and the word sounded like music on her lips itwas so full of love and tenderness, "Jonathan dear, and you all mytrue, true friends, I want you to bear something in mind through allthis dreadful time.  I know that you must fight.  That you mustdestroy even as you destroyed the false Lucy so that the true Lucymight live hereafter.  But it is not a work of hate.  That poor soulwho has wrought all this misery is the saddest case of all.  Justthink what will be his joy when he, too, is destroyed in his worserpart that his better part may have spiritual immortality.  You must bepitiful to him, too, though it may not hold your hands from hisdestruction."As she spoke I could see her husband's face darken and draw together,as though the passion in him were shriveling his being to its core.Instinctively the clasp on his wife's hand grew closer, till hisknuckles looked white.  She did not flinch from the pain which I knewshe must have suffered, but looked at him with eyes that were moreappealing than ever.As she stopped speaking he leaped to his feet, almost tearing his handfrom hers as he spoke."May God give him into my hand just for long enough to destroy thatearthly life of him which we are aiming at.  If beyond it I could sendhis soul forever and ever to burning hell I would do it!""Oh, hush!  Oh, hush in the name of the good God.  Don't say suchthings, Jonathan, my husband, or you will crush me with fear andhorror.  Just think, my dear . . . I have been thinking all this long,long day of it . . . that . . . perhaps . . . some day . . . I, too, mayneed such pity, and that some other like you, and with equal cause foranger, may deny it to me!  Oh, my husband!  My husband, indeed I wouldhave spared you such a thought had there been another way.  But I praythat God may not have treasured your wild words, except as theheart-broken wail of a very loving and sorely stricken man.  Oh, God,let these poor white hairs go in evidence of what he has suffered, whoall his life has done no wrong, and on whom so many sorrows havecome."We men were all in tears now.  There was no resisting them, and wewept openly.  She wept, too, to see that her sweeter counsels hadprevailed.  Her husband flung himself on his knees beside her, andputting his arms round her, hid his face in the folds of her dress.Van Helsing beckoned to us and we stole out of the room, leaving thetwo loving hearts alone with their God.Before they retired the Professor fixed up the room against any comingof the Vampire, and assured Mrs. Harker that she might rest in peace.She tried to school herself to the belief, and manifestly for herhusband's sake, tried to seem content.  It was a brave struggle, andwas, I think and believe, not without its reward.  Van Helsing hadplaced at hand a bell which either of them was to sound in case of anyemergency.  When they had retired, Quincey, Godalming, and I arrangedthat we should sit up, dividing the night between us, and watch overthe safety of the poor stricken lady.  The first watch falls toQuincey, so the rest of us shall be off to bed as soon as we can.Godalming has already turned in, for his is the second watch.  Nowthat my work is done I, too, shall go to bed.JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL3-4 October, close to midnight.--I thought yesterday would never end.There was over me a yearning for sleep, in some sort of blind beliefthat to wake would be to find things changed, and that any change mustnow be for the better.  Before we parted, we discussed what our nextstep was to be, but we could arrive at no result.  All we knew wasthat one earth box remained, and that the Count alone knew where itwas.  If he chooses to lie hidden, he may baffle us for years.  And inthe meantime, the thought is too horrible, I dare not think of it evennow.  This I know, that if ever there was a woman who was allperfection, that one is my poor wronged darling.  I loved her athousand times more for her sweet pity of last night, a pity that mademy own hate of the monster seem despicable.  Surely God will notpermit the world to be the poorer by the loss of such a creature.  Thisis hope to me.  We are all drifting reefwards now, and faith is ouronly anchor.  Thank God!  Mina is sleeping, and sleeping withoutdreams.  I fear what her dreams might be like, with such terriblememories to ground them in.  She has not been so calm, within myseeing, since the sunset.  Then, for a while, there came over her facea repose which was like spring after the blasts of March.  I thoughtat the time that it was the softness of the red sunset on her face,but somehow now I think it has a deeper meaning.  I am not sleepymyself, though I am weary . . . weary to death.  However, I must tryto sleep.  For there is tomorrow to think of, and there is no rest forme until . . .Later--I must have fallen asleep, for I was awakened by Mina, who wassitting up in bed, with a startled look on her face.  I could seeeasily, for we did not leave the room in darkness.  She had placed awarning hand over my mouth, and now she whispered in my ear, "Hush!There is someone in the corridor!"  I got up softly, and crossing theroom, gently opened the door.Just outside, stretched on a mattress, lay Mr. Morris, wide awake.  Heraised a warning hand for silence as he whispered to me, "Hush!  Goback to bed.  It is all right.  One of us will be here all night.  Wedon't mean to take any chances!"His look and gesture forbade discussion, so I came back and told Mina.She sighed and positively a shadow of a smile stole over her poor,pale face as she put her arms round me and said softly, "Oh, thank Godfor good brave men!"  With a sigh she sank back again to sleep.  Iwrite this now as I am not sleepy, though I must try again.4 October, morning.--Once again during the night I was wakened byMina.  This time we had all had a good sleep, for the grey of thecoming dawn was making the windows into sharp oblongs, and the gasflame was like a speck rather than a disc of light.She said to me hurriedly, "Go, call the Professor.  I want to see himat once.""Why?" I asked."I have an idea.  I suppose it must have come in the night, andmatured without my knowing it.  He must hypnotize me before the dawn,and then I shall be able to speak.  Go quick, dearest, the time isgetting close."I went to the door.  Dr. Seward was resting on the mattress, andseeing me, he sprang to his feet."Is anything wrong?" he asked, in alarm."No," I replied.  "But Mina wants to see Dr. Van Helsing at once.""I will go," he said, and hurried into the Professor's room.Two or three minutes later Van Helsing was in the room in his dressinggown, and Mr. Morris and Lord Godalming were with Dr. Seward at thedoor asking questions.  When the Professor saw Mina a smile, apositive smile ousted the anxiety of his face.He rubbed his hands as he said, "Oh, my dear Madam Mina, this isindeed a change.  See!  Friend Jonathan, we have got our dear MadamMina, as of old, back to us today!"  Then turning to her, he saidcheerfully, "And what am I to do for you?  For at this hour you do notwant me for nothing.""I want you to hypnotize me!" she said.  "Do it before the dawn, for Ifeel that then I can speak, and speak freely.  Be quick, for the timeis short!"  Without a word he motioned her to sit up in bed.Looking fixedly at her, he commenced to make passes in front of her,from over the top of her head downward, with each hand in turn.  Minagazed at him fixedly for a few minutes, during which my own heart beatlike a trip hammer, for I felt that some crisis was at hand.Gradually her eyes closed, and she sat, stock still.  Only by thegentle heaving of her bosom could one know that she was alive.  TheProfessor made a few more passes and then stopped, and I could seethat his forehead was covered with great beads of perspiration.  Minaopened her eyes, but she did not seem the same woman.  There was afar-away look in her eyes, and her voice had a sad dreaminess whichwas new to me.  Raising his hand to impose silence, the Professormotioned to me to bring the others in.  They came on tiptoe, closingthe door behind them, and stood at the foot of the bed, looking on.Mina appeared not to see them.  The stillness was broken by VanHelsing's voice speaking in a low level tone which would not break thecurrent of her thoughts."Where are you?"  The answer came in a neutral way."I do not know.  Sleep has no place it can call its own."  For severalminutes there was silence.  Mina sat rigid, and the Professor stoodstaring at her fixedly.The rest of us hardly dared to breathe.  The room was growing lighter.Without taking his eyes from Mina's face, Dr. Van Helsing motioned meto pull up the blind.  I did so, and the day seemed just upon us.  Ared streak shot up, and a rosy light seemed to diffuse itself throughthe room.  On the instant the Professor spoke again."Where are you now?"The answer came dreamily, but with intention.  It were as though shewere interpreting something.  I have heard her use the same tone whenreading her shorthand notes."I do not know.  It is all strange to me!""What do you see?""I can see nothing.  It is all dark.""What do you hear?"  I could detect the strain in the Professor'spatient voice."The lapping of water.  It is gurgling by, and little waves leap.  Ican hear them on the outside.""Then you are on a ship?'"We all looked at each other, trying to glean something each from theother.  We were afraid to think.The answer came quick, "Oh, yes!""What else do you hear?""The sound of men stamping overhead as they run about.  There is thecreaking of a chain, and the loud tinkle as the check of the capstanfalls into the ratchet.""What are you doing?""I am still, oh so still.  It is like death!"  The voice faded awayinto a deep breath as of one sleeping, and the open eyes closed again.By this time the sun had risen, and we were all in the full light ofday.  Dr. Van Helsing placed his hands on Mina's shoulders, and laidher head down softly on her pillow.  She lay like a sleeping child fora few moments, and then, with a long sigh, awoke and stared in wonderto see us all around her."Have I been talking in my sleep?" was all she said.  She seemed,however, to know the situation without telling, though she was eagerto know what she had told.  The Professor repeated the conversation,and she said, "Then there is not a moment to lose.  It may not be yettoo late!"Mr. Morris and Lord Godalming started for the door but the Professor'scalm voice called them back."Stay, my friends.  That ship, wherever it was, was weighing anchor atthe moment in your so great Port of London.  Which of them is it thatyou seek?  God be thanked that we have once again a clue, thoughwhither it may lead us we know not.  We have been blind somewhat.Blind after the manner of men, since we can look back we see what wemight have seen looking forward if we had been able to see what wemight have seen!  Alas, but that sentence is a puddle, is it not?  Wecan know now what was in the Count's mind, when he seize that money,though Jonathan's so fierce knife put him in the danger that even hedread.  He meant escape.  Hear me, ESCAPE!  He saw that with but oneearth box left, and a pack of men following like dogs after a fox,this London was no place for him.  He have take his last earth box onboard a ship, and he leave the land.  He think to escape, but no!  Wefollow him.  Tally Ho!  As friend Arthur would say when he put on hisred frock!  Our old fox is wily.  Oh!  So wily, and we must followwith wile.  I, too, am wily and I think his mind in a little while.In meantime we may rest and in peace, for there are between us whichhe do not want to pass, and which he could not if he would.  Unlessthe ship were to touch the land, and then only at full or slack tide.See, and the sun is just rose, and all day to sunset is us.  Let ustake bath, and dress, and have breakfast which we all need, and whichwe can eat comfortably since he be not in the same land with us."Mina looked at him appealingly as she asked, "But why need we seek himfurther, when he is gone away from us?"He took her hand and patted it as he replied, "Ask me nothing as yet.When we have breakfast, then I answer all questions."  He would say nomore, and we separated to dress.After breakfast Mina repeated her question.  He looked at her gravelyfor a minute and then said sorrowfully, "Because my dear, dear MadamMina, now more than ever must we find him even if we have to followhim to the jaws of Hell!"She grew paler as she asked faintly, "Why?""Because," he answered solemnly, "he can live for centuries, and youare but mortal woman.  Time is now to be dreaded, since once he putthat mark upon your throat."I was just in time to catch her as she fell forward in a faint.CHAPTER 24DR. SEWARD'S PHONOGRAPH DIARYSPOKEN BY VAN HELSINGThis to Jonathan Harker.You are to stay with your dear Madam Mina.  We shall go to make oursearch, if I can call it so, for it is not search but knowing, and weseek confirmation only.  But do you stay and take care of her today.This is your best and most holiest office.  This day nothing can findhim here.Let me tell you that so you will know what we four know already, for Ihave tell them.  He, our enemy, have gone away.  He have gone back tohis Castle in Transylvania.  I know it so well, as if a great hand offire wrote it on the wall.  He have prepare for this in some way, andthat last earth box was ready to ship somewheres.  For this he tookthe money.  For this he hurry at the last, lest we catch him beforethe sun go down.  It was his last hope, save that he might hide in thetomb that he think poor Miss Lucy, being as he thought like him, keepopen to him.  But there was not of time.  When that fail he makestraight for his last resource, his last earth-work I might say did Iwish double entente.  He is clever, oh so clever!  He know that hisgame here was finish.  And so he decide he go back home.  He find shipgoing by the route he came, and he go in it.We go off now to find what ship, and whither bound.  When we havediscover that, we come back and tell you all.  Then we will comfortyou and poor Madam Mina with new hope.  For it will be hope when youthink it over, that all is not lost.  This very creature that wepursue, he take hundreds of years to get so far as London.  And yet inone day, when we know of the disposal of him we drive him out.  He isfinite, though he is powerful to do much harm and suffers not as wedo.  But we are strong, each in our purpose, and we are all morestrong together.  Take heart afresh, dear husband of Madam Mina.  Thisbattle is but begun and in the end we shall win.  So sure as that Godsits on high to watch over His children.  Therefore be of much comforttill we return.VAN HELSING.JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL4 October.--When I read to Mina, Van Helsing's message in thephonograph, the poor girl brightened up considerably.  Already thecertainty that the Count is out of the country has given her comfort.And comfort is strength to her.  For my own part, now that hishorrible danger is not face to face with us, it seems almostimpossible to believe in it.  Even my own terrible experiences inCastle Dracula seem like a long forgotten dream.  Here in the crispautumn air in the bright sunlight.Alas!  How can I disbelieve!  In the midst of my thought my eye fellon the red scar on my poor darling's white forehead.  Whilst thatlasts, there can be no disbelief.  Mina and I fear to be idle, so wehave been over all the diaries again and again.  Somehow, although thereality seem greater each time, the pain and the fear seem less.  Thereis something of a guiding purpose manifest throughout, which iscomforting.  Mina says that perhaps we are the instruments of ultimategood.  It may be!  I shall try to think as she does.  We have neverspoken to each other yet of the future.  It is better to wait till wesee the Professor and the others after their investigations.The day is running by more quickly than I ever thought a day could runfor me again.  It is now three o'clock.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL5 October, 5 P.M.--Our meeting for report.  Present:  Professor VanHelsing, Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, Mr. Quincey Morris, JonathanHarker, Mina Harker.Dr. Van Helsing described what steps were taken during the day todiscover on what boat and whither bound Count Dracula made his escape."As I knew that he wanted to get back to Transylvania, I felt surethat he must go by the Danube mouth, or by somewhere in the Black Sea,since by that way he come.  It was a dreary blank that was before us.Omme ignotum pro magnifico, and so with heavy hearts we start to findwhat ships leave for the Black Sea last night.  He was in sailingship, since Madam Mina tell of sails being set.  These not soimportant as to go in your list of the shipping in the Times, and sowe go, by suggestion of Lord Godalming, to your Lloyd's, where arenote of all ships that sail, however so small.  There we find thatonly one Black Sea bound ship go out with the tide.  She is theCzarina Catherine, and she sail from Doolittle's Wharf for Varna, andthence to other ports and up the Danube.  'So!' said I, 'this is theship whereon is the Count.'  So off we go to Doolittle's Wharf, andthere we find a man in an office.  From him we inquire of the goingsof the Czarina Catherine.  He swear much, and he red face and loud ofvoice, but he good fellow all the same.  And when Quincey give himsomething from his pocket which crackle as he roll it up, and put itin a so small bag which he have hid deep in his clothing, he stillbetter fellow and humble servant to us.  He come with us, and ask manymen who are rough and hot.  These be better fellows too when they havebeen no more thirsty.  They say much of blood and bloom, and of otherswhich I comprehend not, though I guess what they mean.  Butnevertheless they tell us all things which we want to know."They make known to us among them, how last afternoon at about fiveo'clock comes a man so hurry.  A tall man, thin and pale, with highnose and teeth so white, and eyes that seem to be burning.  That he beall in black, except that he have a hat of straw which suit not him orthe time.  That he scatter his money in making quick inquiry as towhat ship sails for the Black Sea and for where.  Some took him to theoffice and then to the ship, where he will not go aboard but halt atshore end of gangplank, and ask that the captain come to him.  Thecaptain come, when told that he will be pay well, and though he swearmuch at the first he agree to term.  Then the thin man go and some onetell him where horse and cart can be hired.  He go there and soon hecome again, himself driving cart on which a great box.  This hehimself lift down, though it take several to put it on truck for theship.  He give much talk to captain as to how and where his box is tobe place.  But the captain like it not and swear at him in manytongues, and tell him that if he like he can come and see where itshall be.  But he say 'no,' that he come not yet, for that he havemuch to do.  Whereupon the captain tell him that he had better bequick, with blood, for that his ship will leave the place, of blood,before the turn of the tide, with blood.  Then the thin man smile andsay that of course he must go when he think fit, but he will besurprise if he go quite so soon.  The captain swear again, polyglot,and the thin man make him bow, and thank him, and say that he will sofar intrude on his kindness as to come aboard before the sailing.Final the captain, more red than ever, and in more tongues, tell himthat he doesn't want no Frenchmen, with bloom upon them and also withblood, in his ship, with blood on her also.  And so, after askingwhere he might purchase ship forms, he departed."No one knew where he went 'or bloomin' well cared' as they said, forthey had something else to think of, well with blood again.  For itsoon became apparent to all that the Czarina Catherine would not sailas was expected.  A thin mist began to creep up from the river, and itgrew, and grew.  Till soon a dense fog enveloped the ship and allaround her.  The captain swore polyglot, very polyglot, polyglot withbloom and blood, but he could do nothing.  The water rose and rose,and he began to fear that he would lose the tide altogether.  He wasin no friendly mood, when just at full tide, the thin man came up thegangplank again and asked to see where his box had been stowed.  Thenthe captain replied that he wished that he and his box, old and withmuch bloom and blood, were in hell.  But the thin man did not beoffend, and went down with the mate and saw where it was place, andcame up and stood awhile on deck in fog.  He must have come off byhimself, for none notice him.  Indeed they thought not of him, forsoon the fog begin to melt away, and all was clear again.  My friendsof the thirst and the language that was of bloom and blood laughed, asthey told how the captain's swears exceeded even his usual polyglot,and was more than ever full of picturesque, when on questioning othermariners who were on movement up and down the river that hour, hefound that few of them had seen any of fog at all, except where it layround the wharf.  However, the ship went out on the ebb tide, and wasdoubtless by morning far down the river mouth.  She was then, whenthey told us, well out to sea."And so, my dear Madam Mina, it is that we have to rest for a time,for our enemy is on the sea, with the fog at his command, on his wayto the Danube mouth.  To sail a ship takes time, go she never soquick.  And when we start to go on land more quick, and we meet himthere.  Our best hope is to come on him when in the box betweensunrise and sunset.  For then he can make no struggle, and we may dealwith him as we should.  There are days for us, in which we can makeready our plan.  We know all about where he go.  For we have seen theowner of the ship, who have shown us invoices and all papers that canbe.  The box we seek is to be landed in Varna, and to be given to anagent, one Ristics who will there present his credentials.  And so ourmerchant friend will have done his part.  When he ask if there be anywrong, for that so, he can telegraph and have inquiry made at Varna,we say 'no,' for what is to be done is not for police or of thecustoms.  It must be done by us alone and in our own way."When Dr. Van Helsing had done speaking, I asked him if he were certainthat the Count had remained on board the ship.  He replied, "We havethe best proof of that, your own evidence, when in the hypnotic trancethis morning."I asked him again if it were really necessary that they should pursuethe Count, for oh!  I dread Jonathan leaving me, and I know that hewould surely go if the others went.  He answered in growing passion,at first quietly.  As he went on, however, he grew more angry and moreforceful, till in the end we could not but see wherein was at leastsome of that personal dominance which made him so long a masteramongst men."Yes, it is necessary, necessary, necessary!  For your sake in thefirst, and then for the sake of humanity.  This monster has done muchharm already, in the narrow scope where he find himself, and in theshort time when as yet he was only as a body groping his so smallmeasure in darkness and not knowing.  All this have I told theseothers.  You, my dear Madam Mina, will learn it in the phonograph ofmy friend John, or in that of your husband.  I have told them how themeasure of leaving his own barren land, barren of peoples, and comingto a new land where life of man teems till they are like the multitudeof standing corn, was the work of centuries.  Were another of theUndead, like him, to try to do what he has done, perhaps not all thecenturies of the world that have been, or that will be, could aid him.With this one, all the forces of nature that are occult and deep andstrong must have worked together in some wonderous way.  The veryplace, where he have been alive, Undead for all these centuries, isfull of strangeness of the geologic and chemical world.  There aredeep caverns and fissures that reach none know whither.  There havebeen volcanoes, some of whose openings still send out waters ofstrange properties, and gases that kill or make to vivify.  Doubtless,there is something magnetic or electric in some of these combinationsof occult forces which work for physical life in strange way, and inhimself were from the first some great qualities.  In a hard andwarlike time he was celebrate that he have more iron nerve, moresubtle brain, more braver heart, than any man.  In him some vitalprinciple have in strange way found their utmost.  And as his bodykeep strong and grow and thrive, so his brain grow too.  All thiswithout that diabolic aid which is surely to him.  For it have toyield to the powers that come from, and are, symbolic of good.  Andnow this is what he is to us.  He have infect you, oh forgive me, mydear, that I must say such, but it is for good of you that I speak.  Heinfect you in such wise, that even if he do no more, you have only tolive, to live in your own old, sweet way, and so in time, death, whichis of man's common lot and with God's sanction, shall make you like tohim.  This must not be!  We have sworn together that it must not.Thus are we ministers of God's own wish.  That the world, and men forwhom His Son die, will not be given over to monsters, whose veryexistence would defame Him.  He have allowed us to redeem one soulalready, and we go out as the old knights of the Cross to redeemmore.  Like them we shall travel towards the sunrise.  And like them,if we fall, we fall in good cause."He paused and I said, "But will not the Count take his rebuff wisely?Since he has been driven from England, will he not avoid it, as atiger does the village from which he has been hunted?""Aha!" he said, "your simile of the tiger good, for me, and I shalladopt him.  Your maneater, as they of India call the tiger who hasonce tasted blood of the human, care no more for the other prey, butprowl unceasing till he get him.  This that we hunt from our villageis a tiger, too, a maneater, and he never cease to prowl.  Nay, inhimself he is not one to retire and stay afar.  In his life, hisliving life, he go over the Turkey frontier and attack his enemy onhis own ground.  He be beaten back, but did he stay?  No!  He comeagain, and again, and again.  Look at his persistence and endurance.With the child-brain that was to him he have long since conceive theidea of coming to a great city.  What does he do?  He find out theplace of all the world most of promise for him.  Then he deliberatelyset himself down to prepare for the task.  He find in patience justhow is his strength, and what are his powers.  He study new tongues.He learn new social life, new environment of old ways, the politics,the law, the finance, the science, the habit of a new land and a newpeople who have come to be since he was.  His glimpse that he havehad, whet his appetite only and enkeen his desire.  Nay, it help himto grow as to his brain.  For it all prove to him how right he was atthe first in his surmises.  He have done this alone, all alone!  Froma ruin tomb in a forgotten land.  What more may he not do when thegreater world of thought is open to him.  He that can smile at death,as we know him.  Who can flourish in the midst of diseases that killoff whole peoples.  Oh!  If such an one was to come from God, and notthe Devil, what a force for good might he not be in this old world ofours.  But we are pledged to set the world free.  Our toil must be insilence, and our efforts all in secret.  For in this enlightened age,when men believe not even what they see, the doubting of wise menwould be his greatest strength.  It would be at once his sheath andhis armor, and his weapons to destroy us, his enemies, who are willingto peril even our own souls for the safety of one we love.  For thegood of mankind, and for the honour and glory of God."After a general discussion it was determined that for tonight nothingbe definitely settled.  That we should all sleep on the facts, and tryto think out the proper conclusions.  Tomorrow, at breakfast, we areto meet again, and after making our conclusions known to one another,we shall decide on some definite cause of action . . .I feel a wonderful peace and rest tonight.  It is as if some hauntingpresence were removed from me.  Perhaps . . .My surmise was not finished, could not be, for I caught sight in themirror of the red mark upon my forehead, and I knew that I was stillunclean.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY5 October.--We all arose early, and I think that sleep did much foreach and all of us.  When we met at early breakfast there was moregeneral cheerfulness than any of us had ever expected to experienceagain.It is really wonderful how much resilience there is in human nature.Let any obstructing cause, no matter what, be removed in any way, evenby death, and we fly back to first principles of hope and enjoyment.More than once as we sat around the table, my eyes opened in wonderwhether the whole of the past days had not been a dream.  It was onlywhen I caught sight of the red blotch on Mrs. Harker's forehead that Iwas brought back to reality.  Even now, when I am gravely revolvingthe matter, it is almost impossible to realize that the cause of allour trouble is still existent.  Even Mrs. Harker seems to lose sightof her trouble for whole spells.  It is only now and again, whensomething recalls it to her mind, that she thinks of her terriblescar.  We are to meet here in my study in half an hour and decide onour course of action.  I see only one immediate difficulty, I know itby instinct rather than reason.  We shall all have to speak frankly.And yet I fear that in some mysterious way poor Mrs. Harker's tongueis tied.  I know that she forms conclusions of her own, and from allthat has been I can guess how brilliant and how true they must be.But she will not, or cannot, give them utterance.  I have mentionedthis to Van Helsing, and he and I are to talk it over when we arealone.  I suppose it is some of that horrid poison which has got intoher veins beginning to work.  The Count had his own purposes when hegave her what Van Helsing called "the Vampire's baptism of blood."Well, there may be a poison that distills itself out of good things.In an age when the existence of ptomaines is a mystery we should notwonder at anything!  One thing I know, that if my instinct be trueregarding poor Mrs. Harker's silences, then there is a terribledifficulty, an unknown danger, in the work before us.  The same powerthat compels her silence may compel her speech.  I dare not thinkfurther, for so I should in my thoughts dishonour a noble woman!Later.--When the Professor came in, we talked over the state ofthings.  I could see that he had something on his mind, which hewanted to say, but felt some hesitancy about broaching the subject.After beating about the bush a little, he said, "Friend John, there issomething that you and I must talk of alone, just at the first at anyrate.  Later, we may have to take the others into our confidence."Then he stopped, so I waited.  He went on, "Madam Mina, our poor, dearMadam Mina is changing."A cold shiver ran through me to find my worst fears thus endorsed.Van Helsing continued."With the sad experience of Miss Lucy, we must this time be warnedbefore things go too far.  Our task is now in reality more difficultthan ever, and this new trouble makes every hour of the direstimportance.  I can see the characteristics of the vampire coming inher face.  It is now but very, very slight.  But it is to be seen ifwe have eyes to notice without prejudge.  Her teeth are sharper, andat times her eyes are more hard.  But these are not all, there is toher the silence now often, as so it was with Miss Lucy.  She did notspeak, even when she wrote that which she wished to be known later.Now my fear is this.  If it be that she can, by our hypnotic trance,tell what the Count see and hear, is it not more true that he who havehypnotize her first, and who have drink of her very blood and make herdrink of his, should if he will, compel her mind to disclose to himthat which she know?"I nodded acquiescence.  He went on, "Then, what we must do is toprevent this.  We must keep her ignorant of our intent, and so shecannot tell what she know not.  This is a painful task!  Oh, sopainful that it heartbreak me to think of it, but it must be.  Whentoday we meet, I must tell her that for reason which we will not tospeak she must not more be of our council, but be simply guarded byus."He wiped his forehead, which had broken out in profuse perspiration atthe thought of the pain which he might have to inflict upon the poorsoul already so tortured.  I knew that it would be some sort ofcomfort to him if I told him that I also had come to the sameconclusion.  For at any rate it would take away the pain of doubt.  Itold him, and the effect was as I expected.It is now close to the time of our general gathering.  Van Helsing hasgone away to prepare for the meeting, and his painful part of it.  Ireally believe his purpose is to be able to pray alone.Later.--At the very outset of our meeting a great personal relief wasexperienced by both Van Helsing and myself.  Mrs. Harker had sent amessage by her husband to say that she would not join us at present,as she thought it better that we should be free to discuss ourmovements without her presence to embarrass us.  The Professor and Ilooked at each other for an instant, and somehow we both seemedrelieved.  For my own part, I thought that if Mrs. Harker realized thedanger herself, it was much pain as well as much danger averted.Under the circumstances we agreed, by a questioning look and answer,with finger on lip, to preserve silence in our suspicions, until weshould have been able to confer alone again.  We went at once into ourPlan of Campaign.Van Helsing roughly put the facts before us first, "The CzarinaCatherine left the Thames yesterday morning.  It will take her at thequickest speed she has ever made at least three weeks to reach Varna.But we can travel overland to the same place in three days.  Now, ifwe allow for two days less for the ship's voyage, owing to suchweather influences as we know that the Count can bring to bear, and ifwe allow a whole day and night for any delays which may occur to us,then we have a margin of nearly two weeks."Thus, in order to be quite safe, we must leave here on 17th atlatest.  Then we shall at any rate be in Varna a day before the shiparrives, and able to make such preparations as may be necessary.  Ofcourse we shall all go armed, armed against evil things, spiritual aswell as physical."Here Quincey Morris added, "I understand that the Count comes from awolf country, and it may be that he shall get there before us.  Ipropose that we add Winchesters to our armament.  I have a kind ofbelief in a Winchester when there is any trouble of that sort around.Do you remember, Art, when we had the pack after us at Tobolsk?  Whatwouldn't we have given then for a repeater apiece!""Good!" said Van Helsing, "Winchesters it shall be.  Quincey's head islevel at times, but most so when there is to hunt, metaphor be moredishonour to science than wolves be of danger to man.  In the meantimewe can do nothing here.  And as I think that Varna is not familiar toany of us, why not go there more soon?  It is as long to wait here asthere.  Tonight and tomorrow we can get ready, and then if all bewell, we four can set out on our journey.""We four?" said Harker interrogatively, looking from one to another ofus."Of course!" answered the Professor quickly.  "You must remain to takecare of your so sweet wife!"Harker was silent for awhile and then said in a hollow voice, "Let ustalk of that part of it in the morning.  I want to consult with Mina."I thought that now was the time for Van Helsing to warn him not todisclose our plan to her, but he took no notice.  I looked at himsignificantly and coughed.  For answer he put his finger to his lipsand turned away.JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL5 October, afternoon.--For some time after our meeting this morning Icould not think.  The new phases of things leave my mind in a state ofwonder which allows no room for active thought.  Mina's determinationnot to take any part in the discussion set me thinking.  And as Icould not argue the matter with her, I could only guess.  I am as faras ever from a solution now.  The way the others received it, toopuzzled me.  The last time we talked of the subject we agreed thatthere was to be no more concealment of anything amongst us.  Mina issleeping now, calmly and sweetly like a little child.  Her lips arecurved and her face beams with happiness.  Thank God, there are suchmoments still for her.Later.--How strange it all is.  I sat watching Mina's happy sleep, andI came as near to being happy myself as I suppose I shall ever be.  Asthe evening drew on, and the earth took its shadows from the sunsinking lower, the silence of the room grew more and more solemn tome.All at once Mina opened her eyes, and looking at me tenderly said,"Jonathan, I want you to promise me something on your word of honour.A promise made to me, but made holily in God's hearing, and not to bebroken though I should go down on my knees and implore you with bittertears.  Quick, you must make it to me at once.""Mina," I said, "a promise like that, I cannot make at once.  I mayhave no right to make it.""But, dear one," she said, with such spiritual intensity that her eyeswere like pole stars, "it is I who wish it.  And it is not for myself.You can ask Dr. Van Helsing if I am not right.  If he disagrees youmay do as you will.  Nay, more if you all agree, later you areabsolved from the promise.""I promise!" I said, and for a moment she looked supremely happy.Though to me all happiness for her was denied by the red scar on herforehead.She said, "Promise me that you will not tell me anything of the plansformed for the campaign against the Count.  Not by word, or inference,or implication, not at any time whilst this remains to me!"  And shesolemnly pointed to the scar.  I saw that she was in earnest, and saidsolemnly, "I promise!" and as I said it I felt that from that instanta door had been shut between us.Later, midnight.--Mina has been bright and cheerful all the evening.So much so that all the rest seemed to take courage, as if infectedsomewhat with her gaiety.  As a result even I myself felt as if thepall of gloom which weighs us down were somewhat lifted.  We allretired early.  Mina is now sleeping like a little child.  It iswonderful thing that her faculty of sleep remains to her in the midstof her terrible trouble.  Thank God for it, for then at least she canforget her care.  Perhaps her example may affect me as her gaiety didtonight.  I shall try it.  Oh!  For a dreamless sleep.6 October, morning.--Another surprise.  Mina woke me early, about thesame time as yesterday, and asked me to bring Dr. Van Helsing.  Ithought that it was another occasion for hypnotism, and withoutquestion went for the Professor.  He had evidently expected some suchcall, for I found him dressed in his room.  His door was ajar, so thathe could hear the opening of the door of our room.  He came at once.As he passed into the room, he asked Mina if the others might come,too."No," she said quite simply, "it will not be necessary.  You can tellthem just as well.  I must go with you on your journey."Dr. Van Helsing was as startled as I was.  After a moment's pause heasked, "But why?""You must take me with you.  I am safer with you, and you shall besafer, too.""But why, dear Madam Mina?  You know that your safety is our solemnestduty.  We go into danger, to which you are, or may be, more liablethan any of us from . . . from circumstances . . . things that havebeen."  He paused embarrassed.As she replied, she raised her finger and pointed to her forehead.  "Iknow.  That is why I must go.  I can tell you now, whilst the sun iscoming up.  I may not be able again.  I know that when the Count willsme I must go.  I know that if he tells me to come in secret, I must bywile.  By any device to hoodwink, even Jonathan."  God saw the lookthat she turned on me as she spoke, and if there be indeed a RecordingAngel that look is noted to her ever-lasting honour.  I could onlyclasp her hand.  I could not speak.  My emotion was too great for eventhe relief of tears.She went on.  "You men are brave and strong.  You are strong in yournumbers, for you can defy that which would break down the humanendurance of one who had to guard alone.  Besides, I may be ofservice, since you can hypnotize me and so learn that which even Imyself do not know."Dr. Van Helsing said gravely, "Madam Mina, you are, as always, mostwise.  You shall with us come.  And together we shall do that which wego forth to achieve."When he had spoken, Mina's long spell of silence made me look at her.She had fallen back on her pillow asleep.  She did not even wake whenI had pulled up the blind and let in the sunlight which flooded theroom.  Van Helsing motioned to me to come with him quietly.  We wentto his room, and within a minute Lord Godalming, Dr. Seward, and Mr.Morris were with us also.He told them what Mina had said, and went on.  "In the morning weshall leave for Varna.  We have now to deal with a new factor, MadamMina.  Oh, but her soul is true.  It is to her an agony to tell us somuch as she has done.  But it is most right, and we are warned intime.  There must be no chance lost, and in Varna we must be ready toact the instant when that ship arrives.""What shall we do exactly?" asked Mr. Morris laconically.The Professor paused before replying, "We shall at the first boardthat ship.  Then, when we have identified the box, we shall place abranch of the wild rose on it.  This we shall fasten, for when it isthere none can emerge, so that at least says the superstition.  And tosuperstition must we trust at the first.  It was man's faith in theearly, and it have its root in faith still.  Then, when we get theopportunity that we seek, when none are near to see, we shall open thebox, and . . . and all will be well.""I shall not wait for any opportunity," said Morris.  "When I see thebox I shall open it and destroy the monster, though there were athousand men looking on, and if I am to be wiped out for it the nextmoment!"  I grasped his hand instinctively and found it as firm as apiece of steel.  I think he understood my look.  I hope he did."Good boy," said Dr. Van Helsing.  "Brave boy.  Quincey is all man.God bless him for it.  My child, believe me none of us shall lagbehind or pause from any fear.  I do but say what we may do . . . whatwe must do.  But, indeed, indeed we cannot say what we may do.  Thereare so many things which may happen, and their ways and their ends areso various that until the moment we may not say.  We shall all bearmed, in all ways.  And when the time for the end has come, oureffort shall not be lack.  Now let us today put all our affairs inorder.  Let all things which touch on others dear to us, and who on usdepend, be complete.  For none of us can tell what, or when, or how,the end may be.  As for me, my own affairs are regulate, and as I havenothing else to do, I shall go make arrangements for the travel.  Ishall have all tickets and so forth for our journey."There was nothing further to be said, and we parted.  I shall nowsettle up all my affairs of earth, and be ready for whatever may come.Later.--It is done.  My will is made, and all complete.  Mina if shesurvive is my sole heir.  If it should not be so, then the others whohave been so good to us shall have remainder.It is now drawing towards the sunset.  Mina's uneasiness calls myattention to it.  I am sure that there is something on her mind whichthe time of exact sunset will reveal.  These occasions are becomingharrowing times for us all.  For each sunrise and sunset opens up somenew danger, some new pain, which however, may in God's will be meansto a good end.  I write all these things in the diary since my darlingmust not hear them now.  But if it may be that she can see them again,they shall be ready.  She is calling to me.CHAPTER 25DR. SEWARD'S DIARY11 October, Evening.--Jonathan Harker has asked me to note this, as hesays he is hardly equal to the task, and he wants an exact recordkept.I think that none of us were surprised when we were asked to see Mrs.Harker a little before the time of sunset.  We have of late come tounderstand that sunrise and sunset are to her times of peculiarfreedom.  When her old self can be manifest without any controllingforce subduing or restraining her, or inciting her to action.  Thismood or condition begins some half hour or more before actual sunriseor sunset, and lasts till either the sun is high, or whilst the cloudsare still aglow with the rays streaming above the horizon.  At firstthere is a sort of negative condition, as if some tie were loosened,and then the absolute freedom quickly follows.  When, however, thefreedom ceases the change back or relapse comes quickly, precededonly by a spell of warning silence.Tonight, when we met, she was somewhat constrained, and bore all thesigns of an internal struggle.  I put it down myself to her making aviolent effort at the earliest instant she could do so.A very few minutes, however, gave her complete control of herself.Then, motioning her husband to sit beside her on the sofa where shewas half reclining, she made the rest of us bring chairs up close.Taking her husband's hand in hers, she began, "We are all heretogether in freedom, for perhaps the last time!  I know that you willalways be with me to the end."  This was to her husband whose hand had,as we could see, tightened upon her.  "In the morning we go out uponour task, and God alone knows what may be in store for any of us.  Youare going to be so good to me to take me with you.  I know that allthat brave earnest men can do for a poor weak woman, whose soulperhaps is lost, no, no, not yet, but is at any rate at stake, youwill do.  But you must remember that I am not as you are.  There is apoison in my blood, in my soul, which may destroy me, which mustdestroy me, unless some relief comes to us.  Oh, my friends, you knowas well as I do, that my soul is at stake.  And though I know there isone way out for me, you must not and I must not take it!"  She lookedappealingly to us all in turn, beginning and ending with her husband."What is that way?" asked Van Helsing in a hoarse voice.  "What isthat way, which we must not, may not, take?""That I may die now, either by my own hand or that of another, beforethe greater evil is entirely wrought.  I know, and you know, that wereI once dead you could and would set free my immortal spirit, even asyou did my poor Lucy's.  Were death, or the fear of death, the onlything that stood in the way I would not shrink to die here now, amidstthe friends who love me.  But death is not all.  I cannot believe thatto die in such a case, when there is hope before us and a bitter taskto be done, is God's will.  Therefore, I on my part, give up here thecertainty of eternal rest, and go out into the dark where may be theblackest things that the world or the nether world holds!"We were all silent, for we knew instinctively that this was only aprelude.  The faces of the others were set, and Harker's grew ashengrey.  Perhaps, he guessed better than any of us what was coming.She continued, "This is what I can give into the hotch-pot."  I couldnot but note the quaint legal phrase which she used in such a place,and with all seriousness.  "What will each of you give?  Your lives Iknow," she went on quickly, "that is easy for brave men.  Your livesare God's, and you can give them back to Him, but what will you giveto me?"  She looked again questioningly, but this time avoided herhusband's face.  Quincey seemed to understand, he nodded, and her facelit up.  "Then I shall tell you plainly what I want, for there must beno doubtful matter in this connection between us now.  You mustpromise me, one and all, even you, my beloved husband, that should thetime come, you will kill me.""What is that time?"  The voice was Quincey's, but it was low andstrained."When you shall be convinced that I am so changed that it is betterthat I die that I may live.  When I am thus dead in the flesh, thenyou will, without a moment's delay, drive a stake through me and cutoff my head, or do whatever else may be wanting to give me rest!"Quincey was the first to rise after the pause.  He knelt down beforeher and taking her hand in his said solemnly, "I'm only a roughfellow, who hasn't, perhaps, lived as a man should to win such adistinction, but I swear to you by all that I hold sacred and dearthat, should the time ever come, I shall not flinch from the duty thatyou have set us.  And I promise you, too, that I shall make allcertain, for if I am only doubtful I shall take it that the time hascome!""My true friend!" was all she could say amid her fast-falling tears,as bending over, she kissed his hand."I swear the same, my dear Madam Mina!" said Van Helsing.  "And I!"said Lord Godalming, each of them in turn kneeling to her to take theoath.  I followed, myself.Then her husband turned to her wan-eyed and with a greenish pallorwhich subdued the snowy whiteness of his hair, and asked, "And must I,too, make such a promise, oh, my wife?""You too, my dearest," she said, with infinite yearning of pity in hervoice and eyes.  "You must not shrink.  You are nearest and dearestand all the world to me.  Our souls are knit into one, for all lifeand all time.  Think, dear, that there have been times when brave menhave killed their wives and their womenkind, to keep them from fallinginto the hands of the enemy.  Their hands did not falter any the morebecause those that they loved implored them to slay them.  It is men'sduty towards those whom they love, in such times of sore trial!  Andoh, my dear, if it is to be that I must meet death at any hand, let itbe at the hand of him that loves me best.  Dr. Van Helsing, I have notforgotten your mercy in poor Lucy's case to him who loved."  Shestopped with a flying blush, and changed her phrase, "to him who hadbest right to give her peace.  If that time shall come again, I lookto you to make it a happy memory of my husband's life that it was hisloving hand which set me free from the awful thrall upon me.""Again I swear!" came the Professor's resonant voice.Mrs. Harker smiled, positively smiled, as with a sigh of relief sheleaned back and said, "And now one word of warning, a warning whichyou must never forget.  This time, if it ever come, may come quicklyand unexpectedly, and in such case you must lose no time in using youropportunity.  At such a time I myself might be . . . nay!  If the timeever come, shall be, leagued with your enemy against you."One more request," she became very solemn as she said this, "it isnot vital and necessary like the other, but I want you to do one thingfor me, if you will."We all acquiesced, but no one spoke.  There was no need to speak."I want you to read the Burial Service."  She was interrupted by adeep groan from her husband.  Taking his hand in hers, she held itover her heart, and continued.  "You must read it over me some day.Whatever may be the issue of all this fearful state of things, it willbe a sweet thought to all or some of us.  You, my dearest, will I hoperead it, for then it will be in your voice in my memory forever, comewhat may!""But oh, my dear one," he pleaded, "death is afar off from you.""Nay," she said, holding up a warning hand.  "I am deeper in death atthis moment than if the weight of an earthly grave lay heavy upon me!""Oh, my wife, must I read it?" he said, before he began."It would comfort me, my husband!" was all she said, and he began toread when she had got the book ready.How can I, how could anyone, tell of that strange scene, itssolemnity, its gloom, its sadness, its horror, and withal, itssweetness.  Even a sceptic, who can see nothing but a travesty ofbitter truth in anything holy or emotional, would have been melted tothe heart had he seen that little group of loving and devoted friendskneeling round that stricken and sorrowing lady; or heard the tenderpassion of her husband's voice, as in tones so broken and emotionalthat often he had to pause, he read the simple and beautiful servicefrom the Burial of the Dead.  I cannot go on . . . words . . . andv-voices . . . f-fail m-me!She was right in her instinct.  Strange as it was, bizarre as it mayhereafter seem even to us who felt its potent influence at the time,it comforted us much.  And the silence, which showed Mrs. Harker'scoming relapse from her freedom of soul, did not seem so full ofdespair to any of us as we had dreaded.JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL15 October, Varna.--We left Charing Cross on the morning of the 12th,got to Paris the same night, and took the places secured for us in theOrient Express.  We traveled night and day, arriving here at aboutfive o'clock.  Lord Godalming went to the Consulate to see if anytelegram had arrived for him, whilst the rest of us came on to thishotel, "the Odessus."  The journey may have had incidents.  I was,however, too eager to get on, to care for them.  Until the CzarinaCatherine comes into port there will be no interest for me in anythingin the wide world.  Thank God!  Mina is well, and looks to be gettingstronger.  Her colour is coming back.  She sleeps a great deal.Throughout the journey she slept nearly all the time.  Before sunriseand sunset, however, she is very wakeful and alert.  And it has becomea habit for Van Helsing to hypnotize her at such times.  At first,some effort was needed, and he had to make many passes.  But now, sheseems to yield at once, as if by habit, and scarcely any action isneeded.  He seems to have power at these particular moments to simplywill, and her thoughts obey him.  He always asks her what she can seeand hear.She answers to the first, "Nothing, all is dark."And to the second, "I can hear the waves lapping against the ship, andthe water rushing by.  Canvas and cordage strain and masts and yardscreak.  The wind is high . . . I can hear it in the shrouds, and thebow throws back the foam."It is evident that the Czarina Catherine is still at sea, hastening onher way to Varna.  Lord Godalming has just returned.  He had fourtelegrams, one each day since we started, and all to the same effect.That the Czarina Catherine had not been reported to Lloyd's fromanywhere.  He had arranged before leaving London that his agent shouldsend him every day a telegram saying if the ship had been reported.He was to have a message even if she were not reported, so that hemight be sure that there was a watch being kept at the other end ofthe wire.We had dinner and went to bed early.  Tomorrow we are to see the ViceConsul, and to arrange, if we can, about getting on board the ship assoon as she arrives.  Van Helsing says that our chance will be to geton the boat between sunrise and sunset.  The Count, even if he takesthe form of a bat, cannot cross the running water of his own volition,and so cannot leave the ship.  As he dare not change to man's formwithout suspicion, which he evidently wishes to avoid, he must remainin the box.  If, then, we can come on board after sunrise, he is atour mercy, for we can open the box and make sure of him, as we did ofpoor Lucy, before he wakes.  What mercy he shall get from us all willnot count for much.  We think that we shall not have much trouble withofficials or the seamen.  Thank God!  This is the country wherebribery can do anything, and we are well supplied with money.  We haveonly to make sure that the ship cannot come into port between sunsetand sunrise without our being warned, and we shall be safe.  JudgeMoneybag will settle this case, I think!16 October.--Mina's report still the same.  Lapping waves and rushingwater, darkness and favouring winds.  We are evidently in good time,and when we hear of the Czarina Catherine we shall be ready.  As shemust pass the Dardanelles we are sure to have some report.17 October.--Everything is pretty well fixed now, I think, to welcomethe Count on his return from his tour.  Godalming told the shippersthat he fancied that the box sent aboard might contain somethingstolen from a friend of his, and got a half consent that he might openit at his own risk.  The owner gave him a paper telling the Captain togive him every facility in doing whatever he chose on board the ship,and also a similar authorization to his agent at Varna.  We have seenthe agent, who was much impressed with Godalming's kindly manner tohim, and we are all satisfied that whatever he can do to aid ourwishes will be done.We have already arranged what to do in case we get the box open.  Ifthe Count is there, Van Helsing and Seward will cut off his head atonce and drive a stake through his heart.  Morris and Godalming and Ishall prevent interference, even if we have to use the arms which weshall have ready.  The Professor says that if we can so treat theCount's body, it will soon after fall into dust.  In such case therewould be no evidence against us, in case any suspicion of murder werearoused.  But even if it were not, we should stand or fall by our act,and perhaps some day this very script may be evidence to come betweensome of us and a rope.  For myself, I should take the chance only toothankfully if it were to come.  We mean to leave no stone unturned tocarry out our intent.  We have arranged with certain officials thatthe instant the Czarina Catherine is seen, we are to be informed by aspecial messenger.24 October.--A whole week of waiting.  Daily telegrams to Godalming,but only the same story.  "Not yet reported."  Mina's morning andevening hypnotic answer is unvaried.  Lapping waves, rushing water,and creaking masts.TELEGRAM, OCTOBER 24TH RUFUS SMITH, LLOYD'S, LONDON,TO LORD GODALMING, CARE OF H. B. M. VICE CONSUL, VARNA"Czarina Catherine reported this morning from Dardanelles."DR. SEWARD'S DIARY25 October.--How I miss my phonograph!  To write a diary with a pen isirksome to me!  But Van Helsing says I must.  We were all wild withexcitement yesterday when Godalming got his telegram from Lloyd's.  Iknow now what men feel in battle when the call to action is heard.Mrs. Harker, alone of our party, did not show any signs of emotion.After all, it is not strange that she did not, for we took specialcare not to let her know anything about it, and we all tried not toshow any excitement when we were in her presence.  In old days shewould, I am sure, have noticed, no matter how we might have tried toconceal it.  But in this way she is greatly changed during the pastthree weeks.  The lethargy grows upon her, and though she seems strongand well, and is getting back some of her colour, Van Helsing and I arenot satisfied.  We talk of her often.  We have not, however, said aword to the others.  It would break poor Harker's heart, certainly hisnerve, if he knew that we had even a suspicion on the subject.  VanHelsing examines, he tells me, her teeth very carefully, whilst she isin the hypnotic condition, for he says that so long as they do notbegin to sharpen there is no active danger of a change in her.  Ifthis change should come, it would be necessary to take steps!  We bothknow what those steps would have to be, though we do not mention ourthoughts to each other.  We should neither of us shrink from the task,awful though it be to contemplate.  "Euthanasia" is an excellent and acomforting word!  I am grateful to whoever invented it.It is only about 24 hours' sail from the Dardanelles to here, at therate the Czarina Catherine has come from London.  She should thereforearrive some time in the morning, but as she cannot possibly get inbefore noon, we are all about to retire early.  We shall get up at oneo'clock, so as to be ready.25 October, Noon.--No news yet of the ship's arrival.  Mrs. Harker'shypnotic report this morning was the same as usual, so it is possiblethat we may get news at any moment.  We men are all in a fever ofexcitement, except Harker, who is calm.  His hands are cold as ice,and an hour ago I found him whetting the edge of the great Ghoorkaknife which he now always carries with him.  It will be a bad lookoutfor the Count if the edge of that "Kukri" ever touches his throat,driven by that stern, ice-cold hand!Van Helsing and I were a little alarmed about Mrs. Harker today.About noon she got into a sort of lethargy which we did not like.Although we kept silence to the others, we were neither of us happyabout it.  She had been restless all the morning, so that we were atfirst glad to know that she was sleeping.  When, however, her husbandmentioned casually that she was sleeping so soundly that he could notwake her, we went to her room to see for ourselves.  She was breathingnaturally and looked so well and peaceful that we agreed that thesleep was better for her than anything else.  Poor girl, she has somuch to forget that it is no wonder that sleep, if it brings oblivionto her, does her good.Later.--Our opinion was justified, for when after a refreshing sleepof some hours she woke up, she seemed brighter and better than she hadbeen for days.  At sunset she made the usual hypnotic report.Wherever he may be in the Black Sea, the Count is hurrying to hisdestination.  To his doom, I trust!26 October.--Another day and no tidings of the Czarina Catherine.  Sheought to be here by now.  That she is still journeying somewhere isapparent, for Mrs. Harker's hypnotic report at sunrise was still thesame.  It is possible that the vessel may be lying by, at times, forfog.  Some of the steamers which came in last evening reported patchesof fog both to north and south of the port.  We must continue ourwatching, as the ship may now be signalled any moment.27 October, Noon.--Most strange.  No news yet of the ship we wait for.Mrs. Harker reported last night and this morning as usual.  "Lappingwaves and rushing water," though she added that "the waves were veryfaint."  The telegrams from London have been the same, "no furtherreport."  Van Helsing is terribly anxious, and told me just now that hefears the Count is escaping us.He added significantly, "I did not like that lethargy of Madam Mina's.Souls and memories can do strange things during trance."  I was aboutto ask him more, but Harker just then came in, and he held up awarning hand.  We must try tonight at sunset to make her speak morefully when in her hypnotic state.28 October.--Telegram.  Rufus Smith, London, to Lord Godalming, careH. B. M. Vice Consul, Varna"Czarina Catherine reported entering Galatz at one o'clock today."DR. SEWARD'S DIARY28 October.--When the telegram came announcing the arrival in Galatz Ido not think it was such a shock to any of us as might have beenexpected.  True, we did not know whence, or how, or when, the boltwould come.  But I think we all expected that something strange wouldhappen.  The day of arrival at Varna made us individually satisfiedthat things would not be just as we had expected.  We only waited tolearn where the change would occur.  None the less, however, it was asurprise.  I suppose that nature works on such a hopeful basis that webelieve against ourselves that things will be as they ought to be, notas we should know that they will be.  Transcendentalism is a beacon tothe angels, even if it be a will-o'-the-wisp to man.  Van Helsingraised his hand over his head for a moment, as though in remonstrancewith the Almighty.  But he said not a word, and in a few seconds stoodup with his face sternly set.Lord Godalming grew very pale, and sat breathing heavily.  I wasmyself half stunned and looked in wonder at one after another.Quincey Morris tightened his belt with that quick movement which Iknew so well.  In our old wandering days it meant "action."  Mrs.Harker grew ghastly white, so that the scar on her forehead seemed toburn, but she folded her hands meekly and looked up in prayer.  Harkersmiled, actually smiled, the dark, bitter smile of one who is withouthope, but at the same time his action belied his words, for his handsinstinctively sought the hilt of the great Kukri knife and restedthere."When does the next train start for Galatz?" said Van Helsing to usgenerally."At 6:30 tomorrow morning!"  We all started, for the answer came fromMrs. Harker."How on earth do you know?" said Art."You forget, or perhaps you do not know, though Jonathan does and sodoes Dr. Van Helsing, that I am the train fiend.  At home in Exeter Ialways used to make up the time tables, so as to be helpful to myhusband.  I found it so useful sometimes, that I always make a studyof the time tables now.  I knew that if anything were to take us toCastle Dracula we should go by Galatz, or at any rate throughBucharest, so I learned the times very carefully.  Unhappily there arenot many to learn, as the only train tomorrow leaves as I say.""Wonderful woman!" murmured the Professor."Can't we get a special?" asked Lord Godalming.Van Helsing shook his head, "I fear not.  This land is very differentfrom yours or mine.  Even if we did have a special, it would probablynot arrive as soon as our regular train.  Moreover, we have somethingto prepare.  We must think.  Now let us organize.  You, friend Arthur,go to the train and get the tickets and arrange that all be ready forus to go in the morning.  Do you, friend Jonathan, go to the agent ofthe ship and get from him letters to the agent in Galatz, withauthority to make a search of the ship just as it was here.  QuinceyMorris, you see the Vice Consul, and get his aid with his fellow inGalatz and all he can do to make our way smooth, so that no times belost when over the Danube.  John will stay with Madam Mina and me, andwe shall consult.  For so if time be long you may be delayed.  And itwill not matter when the sun set, since I am here with Madam to makereport.""And I," said Mrs. Harker brightly, and more like her old self thanshe had been for many a long day, "shall try to be of use in all ways,and shall think and write for you as I used to do.  Something isshifting from me in some strange way, and I feel freer than I havebeen of late!"The three younger men looked happier at the moment as they seemed torealize the significance of her words.  But Van Helsing and I, turningto each other, met each a grave and troubled glance.  We said nothingat the time, however.When the three men had gone out to their tasks Van Helsing asked Mrs.Harker to look up the copy of the diaries and find him the part ofHarker's journal at the Castle.  She went away to get it.When the door was shut upon her he said to me, "We mean the same!Speak out!""Here is some change.  It is a hope that makes me sick, for it maydeceive us.""Quite so.  Do you know why I asked her to get the manuscript?""No!" said I, "unless it was to get an opportunity of seeing mealone.""You are in part right, friend John, but only in part.  I want to tellyou something.  And oh, my friend, I am taking a great, a terrible,risk.  But I believe it is right.  In the moment when Madam Mina saidthose words that arrest both our understanding, an inspiration came tome.  In the trance of three days ago the Count sent her his spirit toread her mind.  Or more like he took her to see him in his earth boxin the ship with water rushing, just as it go free at rise and set ofsun.  He learn then that we are here, for she have more to tell in heropen life with eyes to see ears to hear than he, shut as he is, in hiscoffin box.  Now he make his most effort to escape us.  At present hewant her not."He is sure with his so great knowledge that she will come at hiscall.  But he cut her off, take her, as he can do, out of his ownpower, that so she come not to him.  Ah!  There I have hope that ourman brains that have been of man so long and that have not lost thegrace of God, will come higher than his child-brain that lie in histomb for centuries, that grow not yet to our stature, and that do onlywork selfish and therefore small.  Here comes Madam Mina.  Not a wordto her of her trance!  She knows it not, and it would overwhelm herand make despair just when we want all her hope, all her courage, whenmost we want all her great brain which is trained like man's brain,but is of sweet woman and have a special power which the Count giveher, and which he may not take away altogether, though he think notso.  Hush!  Let me speak, and you shall learn.  Oh, John, my friend,we are in awful straits.  I fear, as I never feared before.  We canonly trust the good God.  Silence!  Here she comes!"I thought that the Professor was going to break down and havehysterics, just as he had when Lucy died, but with a great effort hecontrolled himself and was at perfect nervous poise when Mrs. Harkertripped into the room, bright and happy looking and, in the doing ofwork, seemingly forgetful of her misery.  As she came in, she handed anumber of sheets of typewriting to Van Helsing.  He looked over themgravely, his face brightening up as he read.Then holding the pages between his finger and thumb he said, "FriendJohn, to you with so much experience already, and you too, dear MadamMina, that are young, here is a lesson.  Do not fear ever to think.  Ahalf thought has been buzzing often in my brain, but I fear to let himloose his wings.  Here now, with more knowledge, I go back to wherethat half thought come from and I find that he be no half thought atall.  That be a whole thought, though so young that he is not yetstrong to use his little wings.  Nay, like the 'Ugly Duck' of myfriend Hans Andersen, he be no duck thought at all, but a big swanthought that sail nobly on big wings, when the time come for him totry them.  See I read here what Jonathan have written."That other of his race who, in a later age, again and again, broughthis forces over The Great River into Turkey Land, who when he wasbeaten back, came again, and again, and again, though he had to comealone from the bloody field where his troops were being slaughtered,since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph."What does this tell us?  Not much?  No!  The Count's child thoughtsee nothing, therefore he speak so free.  Your man thought seenothing.  My man thought see nothing, till just now.  No!  But therecomes another word from some one who speak without thought becauseshe, too, know not what it mean, what it might mean.  Just as thereare elements which rest, yet when in nature's course they move ontheir way and they touch, the pouf!  And there comes a flash of light,heaven wide, that blind and kill and destroy some.  But that show upall earth below for leagues and leagues.  Is it not so?  Well, I shallexplain.  To begin, have you ever study the philosophy of crime?'Yes' and 'No.'  You, John, yes, for it is a study of insanity.  You,no, Madam Mina, for crime touch you not, not but once.  Still, yourmind works true, and argues not a particulari ad universale.  There isthis peculiarity in criminals.  It is so constant, in all countriesand at all times, that even police, who know not much from philosophy,come to know it empirically, that it is.  That is to be empiric.  Thecriminal always work at one crime, that is the true criminal who seemspredestinate to crime, and who will of none other.  This criminal hasnot full man brain.  He is clever and cunning and resourceful, but hebe not of man stature as to brain.  He be of child brain in much.  Nowthis criminal of ours is predestinate to crime also.  He, too, havechild brain, and it is of the child to do what he have done.  Thelittle bird, the little fish, the little animal learn not byprinciple, but empirically.  And when he learn to do, then there is tohim the ground to start from to do more.  'Dos pou sto,' saidArchimedes.  'Give me a fulcrum, and I shall move the world!'  To doonce, is the fulcrum whereby child brain become man brain.  And untilhe have the purpose to do more, he continue to do the same again everytime, just as he have done before!  Oh, my dear, I see that your eyesare opened, and that to you the lightning flash show all the leagues,"for Mrs. Harker began to clap her hands and her eyes sparkled.He went on, "Now you shall speak.  Tell us two dry men of science whatyou see with those so bright eyes."  He took her hand and held itwhilst he spoke.  His finger and thumb closed on her pulse, as Ithought instinctively and unconsciously, as she spoke."The Count is a criminal and of criminal type.  Nordau and Lombrosowould so classify him, and qua criminal he is of an imperfectly formedmind.  Thus, in a difficulty he has to seek resource in habit.  Hispast is a clue, and the one page of it that we know, and that from hisown lips, tells that once before, when in what Mr. Morris would calla 'tight place,' he went back to his own country from the land he hadtried to invade, and thence, without losing purpose, prepared himselffor a new effort.  He came again better equipped for his work, andwon.  So he came to London to invade a new land.  He was beaten, andwhen all hope of success was lost, and his existence in danger, hefled back over the sea to his home.  Just as formerly he had fled backover the Danube from Turkey Land.""Good, good!  Oh, you so clever lady!" said Van Helsing,enthusiastically, as he stooped and kissed her hand.  A moment laterhe said to me, as calmly as though we had been having a sick roomconsultation, "Seventy-two only, and in all this excitement.  I havehope."Turning to her again, he said with keen expectation, "But go on.  Goon!  There is more to tell if you will.  Be not afraid.  John and Iknow.  I do in any case, and shall tell you if you are right.  Speak,without fear!""I will try to.  But you will forgive me if I seem too egotistical.""Nay!  Fear not, you must be egotist, for it is of you that we think.""Then, as he is criminal he is selfish.  And as his intellect is smalland his action is based on selfishness, he confines himself to onepurpose.  That purpose is remorseless.  As he fled back over theDanube, leaving his forces to be cut to pieces, so now he is intent onbeing safe, careless of all.  So his own selfishness frees my soulsomewhat from the terrible power which he acquired over me on thatdreadful night.  I felt it!  Oh, I felt it!  Thank God, for His greatmercy!  My soul is freer than it has been since that awful hour.  Andall that haunts me is a fear lest in some trance or dream he may haveused my knowledge for his ends."The Professor stood up, "He has so used your mind, and by it he hasleft us here in Varna, whilst the ship that carried him rushed throughenveloping fog up to Galatz, where, doubtless, he had made preparationfor escaping from us.  But his child mind only saw so far.  And it maybe that as ever is in God's Providence, the very thing that the evildoer most reckoned on for his selfish good, turns out to be hischiefest harm.  The hunter is taken in his own snare, as the greatPsalmist says.  For now that he think he is free from every trace ofus all, and that he has escaped us with so many hours to him, then hisselfish child brain will whisper him to sleep.  He think, too, that ashe cut himself off from knowing your mind, there can be no knowledgeof him to you.  There is where he fail!  That terrible baptism ofblood which he give you makes you free to go to him in spirit, as youhave as yet done in your times of freedom, when the sun rise and set.At such times you go by my volition and not by his.  And this power togood of you and others, you have won from your suffering at his hands.This is now all more precious that he know it not, and to guardhimself have even cut himself off from his knowledge of our where.We, however, are not selfish, and we believe that God is with usthrough all this blackness, and these many dark hours.  We shallfollow him, and we shall not flinch, even if we peril ourselves thatwe become like him.  Friend John, this has been a great hour, and ithave done much to advance us on our way.  You must be scribe and writehim all down, so that when the others return from their work you cangive it to them, then they shall know as we do."And so I have written it whilst we wait their return, and Mrs. Harkerhas written with the typewriter all since she brought the MS to us.CHAPTER 26DR. SEWARD'S DIARY29 October.--This is written in the train from Varna to Galatz.  Lastnight we all assembled a little before the time of sunset.  Each of ushad done his work as well as he could, so far as thought, andendeavour, and opportunity go, we are prepared for the whole of ourjourney, and for our work when we get to Galatz.  When the usual timecame round Mrs. Harker prepared herself for her hypnotic effort, andafter a longer and more serious effort on the part of Van Helsing thanhas been usually necessary, she sank into the trance.  Usually shespeaks on a hint, but this time the Professor had to ask herquestions, and to ask them pretty resolutely, before we could learnanything.  At last her answer came."I can see nothing.  We are still.  There are no waves lapping, butonly a steady swirl of water softly running against the hawser.  I canhear men's voices calling, near and far, and the roll and creak ofoars in the rowlocks.  A gun is fired somewhere, the echo of it seemsfar away.  There is tramping of feet overhead, and ropes and chainsare dragged along.  What is this?  There is a gleam of light.  I canfeel the air blowing upon me."Here she stopped.  She had risen, as if impulsively, from where shelay on the sofa, and raised both her hands, palms upwards, as iflifting a weight.  Van Helsing and I looked at each other withunderstanding.  Quincey raised his eyebrows slightly and looked at herintently, whilst Harker's hand instinctively closed round the hilt ofhis Kukri.  There was a long pause.  We all knew that the time whenshe could speak was passing, but we felt that it was useless to sayanything.Suddenly she sat up, and as she opened her eyes said sweetly, "Wouldnone of you like a cup of tea?  You must all be so tired!"We could only make her happy, and so acqueisced.  She bustled off toget tea.  When she had gone Van Helsing said, "You see, my friends.  Heis close to land.  He has left his earth chest.  But he has yet to geton shore.  In the night he may lie hidden somewhere, but if he be notcarried on shore, or if the ship do not touch it, he cannot achievethe land.  In such case he can, if it be in the night, change his formand jump or fly on shore, then, unless he be carried he cannot escape.And if he be carried, then the customs men may discover what the boxcontain.  Thus, in fine, if he escape not on shore tonight, or beforedawn, there will be the whole day lost to him.  We may then arrive intime.  For if he escape not at night we shall come on him in daytime,boxed up and at our mercy.  For he dare not be his true self, awakeand visible, lest he be discovered."There was no more to be said, so we waited in patience until the dawn,at which time we might learn more from Mrs. Harker.Early this morning we listened, with breathless anxiety, for herresponse in her trance.  The hypnotic stage was even longer in comingthan before, and when it came the time remaining until full sunrisewas so short that we began to despair.  Van Helsing seemed to throwhis whole soul into the effort.  At last, in obedience to his will shemade reply."All is dark.  I hear lapping water, level with me, and some creakingas of wood on wood."  She paused, and the red sun shot up.  We mustwait till tonight.And so it is that we are travelling towards Galatz in an agony ofexpectation.  We are due to arrive between two and three in themorning.  But already, at Bucharest, we are three hours late, so wecannot possibly get in till well after sunup.  Thus we shall have twomore hypnotic messages from Mrs. Harker!  Either or both may possiblythrow more light on what is happening.Later.--Sunset has come and gone.  Fortunately it came at a time whenthere was no distraction.  For had it occurred whilst we were at astation, we might not have secured the necessary calm and isolation.Mrs. Harker yielded to the hypnotic influence even less readily thanthis morning.  I am in fear that her power of reading the Count'ssensations may die away, just when we want it most.  It seems to methat her imagination is beginning to work.  Whilst she has been in thetrance hitherto she has confined herself to the simplest of facts.  Ifthis goes on it may ultimately mislead us.  If I thought that theCount's power over her would die away equally with her power ofknowledge it would be a happy thought.  But I am afraid that it maynot be so.When she did speak, her words were enigmatical, "Something is goingout.  I can feel it pass me like a cold wind.  I can hear, far off,confused sounds, as of men talking in strange tongues, fierce fallingwater, and the howling of wolves."  She stopped and a shudder ranthrough her, increasing in intensity for a few seconds, till at theend, she shook as though in a palsy.  She said no more, even in answerto the Professor's imperative questioning.  When she woke from thetrance, she was cold, and exhausted, and languid, but her mind was allalert.  She could not remember anything, but asked what she had said.When she was told, she pondered over it deeply for a long time and insilence.30 October, 7 A.M.--We are near Galatz now, and I may not have time towrite later.  Sunrise this morning was anxiously looked for by us all.Knowing of the increasing difficulty of procuring the hypnotic trance,Van Helsing began his passes earlier than usual.  They produced noeffect, however, until the regular time, when she yielded with a stillgreater difficulty, only a minute before the sun rose.  The Professorlost no time in his questioning.Her answer came with equal quickness, "All is dark.  I hear waterswirling by, level with my ears, and the creaking of wood on wood.Cattle low far off.  There is another sound, a queer one like . . ."She stopped and grew white, and whiter still."Go on, go on!  Speak, I command you!" said Van Helsing in an agonizedvoice.  At the same time there was despair in his eyes, for the risensun was reddening even Mrs. Harker's pale face.  She opened her eyes,and we all started as she said, sweetly and seemingly with the utmostunconcern."Oh, Professor, why ask me to do what you know I can't?  I don'tremember anything."  Then, seeing the look of amazement on our faces,she said, turning from one to the other with a troubled look, "Whathave I said?  What have I done?  I know nothing, only that I was lyinghere, half asleep, and heard you say 'go on! speak, I command you!'  Itseemed so funny to hear you order me about, as if I were a bad child!""Oh, Madam Mina," he said, sadly, "it is proof, if proof be needed, ofhow I love and honour you, when a word for your good, spoken moreearnest than ever, can seem so strange because it is to order her whomI am proud to obey!"The whistles are sounding.  We are nearing Galatz.  We are on firewith anxiety and eagerness.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL30 October.--Mr. Morris took me to the hotel where our rooms had beenordered by telegraph, he being the one who could best be spared, sincehe does not speak any foreign language.  The forces were distributedmuch as they had been at Varna, except that Lord Godalming went to theVice Consul, as his rank might serve as an immediate guarantee of somesort to the official, we being in extreme hurry.  Jonathan and the twodoctors went to the shipping agent to learn particulars of the arrivalof the Czarina Catherine.Later.--Lord Godalming has returned.  The Consul is away, and the ViceConsul sick.  So the routine work has been attended to by a clerk.  Hewas very obliging, and offered to do anything in his power.JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL30 October.--At nine o'clock Dr. Van Helsing, Dr. Seward, and I calledon Messrs. Mackenzie & Steinkoff, the agents of the London firm ofHapgood.  They had received a wire from London, in answer to LordGodalming's telegraphed request, asking them to show us any civilityin their power.  They were more than kind and courteous, and took usat once on board the Czarina Catherine, which lay at anchor out in theriver harbor.  There we saw the Captain, Donelson by name, who told usof his voyage.  He said that in all his life he had never had sofavourable a run."Man!" he said, "but it made us afeard, for we expect it that weshould have to pay for it wi' some rare piece o' ill luck, so as tokeep up the average.  It's no canny to run frae London to the BlackSea wi' a wind ahint ye, as though the Deil himself were blawin' onyer sail for his ain purpose.  An' a' the time we could no speer athing.  Gin we were nigh a ship, or a port, or a headland, a fog fellon us and travelled wi' us, till when after it had lifted and welooked out, the deil a thing could we see.  We ran by Gibraltar wi'oot bein' able to signal.  An' til we came to the Dardanelles and hadto wait to get our permit to pass, we never were within hail o'aught.  At first I inclined to slack off sail and beat about till thefog was lifted.  But whiles, I thocht that if the Deil was minded toget us into the Black Sea quick, he was like to do it whether we wouldor no.  If we had a quick voyage it would be no to our miscreditwi' the owners, or no hurt to our traffic, an' the Old Mon who hadserved his ain purpose wad be decently grateful to us for no hinderin'him."This mixture of simplicity and cunning, of superstition and commercialreasoning, aroused Van Helsing, who said, "Mine friend, that Devil ismore clever than he is thought by some, and he know when he meet hismatch!"The skipper was not displeased with the compliment, and went on, "Whenwe got past the Bosphorus the men began to grumble.  Some o' them, theRoumanians, came and asked me to heave overboard a big box which hadbeen put on board by a queer lookin' old man just before we hadstarted frae London.  I had seen them speer at the fellow, and put outtheir twa fingers when they saw him, to guard them against the evileye.  Man! but the supersteetion of foreigners is pairfectlyrideeculous!  I sent them aboot their business pretty quick, but asjust after a fog closed in on us I felt a wee bit as they did anentsomething, though I wouldn't say it was again the big box.  Well, onwe went, and as the fog didn't let up for five days I joost let thewind carry us, for if the Deil wanted to get somewheres, well, hewould fetch it up a'reet.  An' if he didn't, well, we'd keep a sharplookout anyhow.  Sure eneuch, we had a fair way and deep water all thetime.  And two days ago, when the mornin' sun came through the fog, wefound ourselves just in the river opposite Galatz.  The Roumanianswere wild, and wanted me right or wrong to take out the box and flingit in the river.  I had to argy wi' them aboot it wi' a handspike.  An'when the last o' them rose off the deck wi' his head in his hand, Ihad convinced them that, evil eye or no evil eye, the property and thetrust of my owners were better in my hands than in the river Danube.They had, mind ye, taken the box on the deck ready to fling in, and asit was marked Galatz via Varna, I thocht I'd let it lie till wedischarged in the port an' get rid o't althegither.  We didn't do muchclearin' that day, an' had to remain the nicht at anchor.  But in themornin', braw an' airly, an hour before sunup, a man came aboard wi'an order, written to him from England, to receive a box marked for oneCount Dracula.  Sure eneuch the matter was one ready to his hand.  Hehad his papers a' reet, an' glad I was to be rid o' the dam' thing,for I was beginnin' masel' to feel uneasy at it.  If the Deil did haveany luggage aboord the ship, I'm thinkin' it was nane ither than thatsame!""What was the name of the man who took it?" asked Dr. Van Helsing withrestrained eagerness."I'll be tellin' ye quick!" he answered, and stepping down to hiscabin, produced a receipt signed "Immanuel Hildesheim."  Burgen-strasse16 was the address.  We found out that this was all the Captain knew,so with thanks we came away.We found Hildesheim in his office, a Hebrew of rather the AdelphiTheatre type, with a nose like a sheep, and a fez.  His arguments werepointed with specie, we doing the punctuation, and with a littlebargaining he told us what he knew.  This turned out to be simple butimportant.  He had received a letter from Mr. de Ville of London,telling him to receive, if possible before sunrise so as to avoidcustoms, a box which would arrive at Galatz in the Czarina Catherine.This he was to give in charge to a certain Petrof Skinsky, who dealtwith the Slovaks who traded down the river to the port.  He had beenpaid for his work by an English bank note, which had been duly cashedfor gold at the Danube International Bank.  When Skinsky had come tohim, he had taken him to the ship and handed over the box, so as tosave porterage.  That was all he knew.We then sought for Skinsky, but were unable to find him.  One of hisneighbors, who did not seem to bear him any affection, said that hehad gone away two days before, no one knew whither.  This wascorroborated by his landlord, who had received by messenger the key ofthe house together with the rent due, in English money.  This had beenbetween ten and eleven o'clock last night.  We were at a standstillagain.Whilst we were talking one came running and breathlessly gasped outthat the body of Skinsky had been found inside the wall of thechurchyard of St. Peter, and that the throat had been torn open as ifby some wild animal.  Those we had been speaking with ran off to seethe horror, the women crying out.  "This is the work of a Slovak!"  Wehurried away lest we should have been in some way drawn into theaffair, and so detained.As we came home we could arrive at no definite conclusion.  We wereall convinced that the box was on its way, by water, to somewhere, butwhere that might be we would have to discover.  With heavy hearts wecame home to the hotel to Mina.When we met together, the first thing was to consult as to taking Minaagain into our confidence.  Things are getting desperate, and it is atleast a chance, though a hazardous one.  As a preliminary step, I wasreleased from my promise to her.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL30 October, evening.--They were so tired and worn out and dispiritedthat there was nothing to be done till they had some rest, so I askedthem all to lie down for half an hour whilst I should enter everythingup to the moment.  I feel so grateful to the man who invented the"Traveller's" typewriter, and to Mr. Morris for getting this one forme.  I should have felt quite astray doing the work if I had to writewith a pen . . .It is all done.  Poor dear, dear Jonathan, what he must have suffered,what he must be suffering now.  He lies on the sofa hardly seeming tobreathe, and his whole body appears in collapse.  His brows are knit.His face is drawn with pain.  Poor fellow, maybe he is thinking, and Ican see his face all wrinkled up with the concentration of histhoughts.  Oh! if I could only help at all.  I shall do what I can.I have asked Dr. Van Helsing, and he has got me all the papers that Ihave not yet seen.  Whilst they are resting, I shall go over allcarefully, and perhaps I may arrive at some conclusion.  I shall tryto follow the Professor's example, and think without prejudice on thefacts before me . . .I do believe that under God's providence I have made a discovery.  Ishall get the maps and look over them.I am more than ever sure that I am right.  My new conclusion is ready,so I shall get our party together and read it.  They can judge it.  Itis well to be accurate, and every minute is precious.MINA HARKER'S MEMORANDUM(ENTERED IN HER JOURNAL)Ground of inquiry.--Count Dracula's problem is to get backto his own place.(a) He must be brought back by some one.  This is evident;for had he power to move himself as he wished he could goeither as man, or wolf, or bat, or in some other way.  Heevidently fears discovery or interference, in the state ofhelplessness in which he must be, confined as he is betweendawn and sunset in his wooden box.(b) How is he to be taken?--Here a process of exclusions mayhelp us.  By road, by rail, by water?1.  By Road.--There are endless difficulties, especially inleaving the city.(x) There are people.  And people are curious, andinvestigate.  A hint, a surmise, a doubt as to what mightbe in the box, would destroy him.(y) There are, or there may be, customs and octroi officersto pass.(z) His pursuers might follow.  This is his highest fear.And in order to prevent his being betrayed he has repelled,so far as he can, even his victim, me!2.  By Rail.--There is no one in charge of the box.  Itwould have to take its chance of being delayed, and delaywould be fatal, with enemies on the track.  True, he mightescape at night.  But what would he be, if left in a strangeplace with no refuge that he could fly to?  This is not what heintends, and he does not mean to risk it.3.  By Water.--Here is the safest way, in one respect, butwith most danger in another.  On the water he is powerlessexcept at night.  Even then he can only summon fog and storm andsnow and his wolves.  But were he wrecked, the living water wouldengulf him, helpless, and he would indeed be lost.  He could havethe vessel drive to land, but if it were unfriendly land, whereinhe was not free to move, his position would still be desperate.We know from the record that he was on the water, so whatwe have to do is to ascertain what water.The first thing is to realize exactly what he has done asyet.  We may, then, get a light on what his task is to be.Firstly.--We must differentiate between what he did inLondon as part of his general plan of action, when he waspressed for moments and had to arrange as best he could.Secondly.--We must see, as well as we can surmise it from thefacts we know of, what he has done here.As to the first, he evidently intended to arrive at Galatz,and sent invoice to Varna to deceive us lest we should ascertainhis means of exit from England.  His immediate and sole purposethen was to escape.  The proof of this, is the letter ofinstructions sent to Immanuel Hildesheim to clear and take awaythe box before sunrise.  There is also the instruction to PetrofSkinsky.  These we must only guess at, but there must have beensome letter or message, since Skinsky came to Hildesheim.That, so far, his plans were successful we know.  The CzarinaCatherine made a phenomenally quick journey.  So much so thatCaptain Donelson's suspicions were aroused.  But his superstitionunited with his canniness played the Count's game for him, and heran with his favouring wind through fogs and all till he broughtup blindfold at Galatz.  That the Count's arrangements were wellmade, has been proved.  Hildesheim cleared the box, took it off,and gave it to Skinsky.  Skinsky took it, and here we lose thetrail.  We only know that the box is somewhere on the water,moving along.  The customs and the octroi, if there be any, havebeen avoided.Now we come to what the Count must have done after hisarrival, on land, at Galatz.The box was given to Skinsky before sunrise.  At sunrisethe Count could appear in his own form.  Here, we ask whySkinsky was chosen at all to aid in the work?  In my husband'sdiary, Skinsky is mentioned as dealing with the Slovaks who tradedown the river to the port.  And the man's remark, that themurder was the work of a Slovak, showed the general feelingagainst his class.  The Count wanted isolation.My surmise is this, that in London the Count decided to getback to his castle by water, as the most safe and secretway.  He was brought from the castle by Szgany, and probably theydelivered their cargo to Slovaks who took the boxes to Varna, forthere they were shipped to London.  Thus the Count had knowledgeof the persons who could arrange this service.  When the box wason land, before sunrise or after sunset, he came out from hisbox, met Skinsky and instructed him what to do as to arrangingthe carriage of the box up some river.  When this was done, andhe knew that all was in train, he blotted out his traces, as hethought, by murdering his agent.I have examined the map and find that the river mostsuitable for the Slovaks to have ascended is either thePruth or the Sereth.  I read in the typescript that in mytrance I heard cows low and water swirling level with myears and the creaking of wood.  The Count in his box, then,was on a river in an open boat, propelled probably eitherby oars or poles, for the banks are near and it is workingagainst stream.  There would be no such if floating downstream.Of course it may not be either the Sereth or the Pruth, butwe may possibly investigate further.  Now of these two, thePruth is the more easily navigated, but the Sereth is, atFundu, joined by the Bistritza which runs up round the BorgoPass.  The loop it makes is manifestly as close to Dracula'scastle as can be got by water.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL--CONTINUEDWhen I had done reading, Jonathan took me in his arms and kissed me.The others kept shaking me by both hands, and Dr. Van Helsing said,"Our dear Madam Mina is once more our teacher.  Her eyes have beenwhere we were blinded.  Now we are on the track once again, and thistime we may succeed.  Our enemy is at his most helpless.  And if wecan come on him by day, on the water, our task will be over.  He has astart, but he is powerless to hasten, as he may not leave this boxlest those who carry him may suspect.  For them to suspect would be toprompt them to throw him in the stream where he perish.  This heknows, and will not.  Now men, to our Council of War, for here andnow, we must plan what each and all shall do.""I shall get a steam launch and follow him," said Lord Godalming."And I, horses to follow on the bank lest by chance he land," said Mr.Morris."Good!" said the Professor, "both good.  But neither must go alone.There must be force to overcome force if need be.  The Slovak isstrong and rough, and he carries rude arms."  All the men smiled, foramongst them they carried a small arsenal.Said Mr. Morris, "I have brought some Winchesters.  They are prettyhandy in a crowd, and there may be wolves.  The Count, if youremember, took some other precautions.  He made some requisitions onothers that Mrs. Harker could not quite hear or understand.  We mustbe ready at all points."Dr. Seward said, "I think I had better go with Quincey.  We have beenaccustomed to hunt together, and we two, well armed, will be a matchfor whatever may come along.  You must not be alone, Art.  It may benecessary to fight the Slovaks, and a chance thrust, for I don'tsuppose these fellows carry guns, would undo all our plans.  Theremust be no chances, this time.  We shall not rest until the Count'shead and body have been separated, and we are sure that he cannotreincarnate."He looked at Jonathan as he spoke, and Jonathan looked at me.  I couldsee that the poor dear was torn about in his mind.  Of course hewanted to be with me.  But then the boat service would, most likely,be the one which would destroy the . . . the . . . Vampire.  (Why didI hesitate to write the word?)He was silent awhile, and during his silence Dr. Van Helsing spoke,"Friend Jonathan, this is to you for twice reasons.  First, becauseyou are young and brave and can fight, and all energies may be neededat the last.  And again that it is your right to destroy him.  That,which has wrought such woe to you and yours.  Be not afraid for MadamMina.  She will be my care, if I may.  I am old.  My legs are not soquick to run as once.  And I am not used to ride so long or to pursueas need be, or to fight with lethal weapons.  But I can be of otherservice.  I can fight in other way.  And I can die, if need be, aswell as younger men.  Now let me say that what I would is this.  Whileyou, my Lord Godalming and friend Jonathan go in your so swift littlesteamboat up the river, and whilst John and Quincey guard the bankwhere perchance he might be landed, I will take Madam Mina right intothe heart of the enemy's country.  Whilst the old fox is tied in hisbox, floating on the running stream whence he cannot escape to land,where he dares not raise the lid of his coffin box lest his Slovakcarriers should in fear leave him to perish, we shall go in the trackwhere Jonathan went, from Bistritz over the Borgo, and find our way tothe Castle of Dracula.  Here, Madam Mina's hypnotic power will surelyhelp, and we shall find our way, all dark and unknown otherwise, afterthe first sunrise when we are near that fateful place.  There is muchto be done, and other places to be made sanctify, so that that nest ofvipers be obliterated."Here Jonathan interrupted him hotly, "Do you mean to say, ProfessorVan Helsing, that you would bring Mina, in her sad case and tainted asshe is with that devil's illness, right into the jaws of hisdeathtrap?  Not for the world!  Not for Heaven or Hell!"He became almost speechless for a minute, and then went on, "Do youknow what the place is?  Have you seen that awful den of hellishinfamy, with the very moonlight alive with grisly shapes, and everyspeck of dust that whirls in the wind a devouring monster in embryo?Have you felt the Vampire's lips upon your throat?"Here he turned to me, and as his eyes lit on my forehead he threw uphis arms with a cry, "Oh, my God, what have we done to have thisterror upon us?" and he sank down on the sofa in a collapse of misery.The Professor's voice, as he spoke in clear, sweet tones, which seemedto vibrate in the air, calmed us all."Oh, my friend, it is because I would save Madam Mina from that awfulplace that I would go.  God forbid that I should take her into thatplace.  There is work, wild work, to be done before that place can bepurify.  Remember that we are in terrible straits.  If the Countescape us this time, and he is strong and subtle and cunning, he maychoose to sleep him for a century, and then in time our dear one," hetook my hand, "would come to him to keep him company, and would be asthose others that you, Jonathan, saw.  You have told us of theirgloating lips.  You heard their ribald laugh as they clutched themoving bag that the Count threw to them.  You shudder, and well may itbe.  Forgive me that I make you so much pain, but it is necessary.  Myfriend, is it not a dire need for that which I am giving, possibly mylife?  If it were that any one went into that place to stay, it is Iwho would have to go to keep them company.""Do as you will," said Jonathan, with a sob that shook him all over,"we are in the hands of God!"Later.--Oh, it did me good to see the way that these brave men worked.How can women help loving men when they are so earnest, and so true,and so brave!  And, too, it made me think of the wonderful power ofmoney!  What can it not do when basely used.  I felt so thankful thatLord Godalming is rich, and both he and Mr. Morris, who also hasplenty of money, are willing to spend it so freely.  For if they didnot, our little expedition could not start, either so promptly or sowell equipped, as it will within another hour.  It is not three hourssince it was arranged what part each of us was to do.  And now LordGodalming and Jonathan have a lovely steam launch, with steam up readyto start at a moment's notice.  Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris have half adozen good horses, well appointed.  We have all the maps andappliances of various kinds that can be had.  Professor Van Helsingand I are to leave by the 11:40 train tonight for Veresti, where weare to get a carriage to drive to the Borgo Pass.  We are bringing agood deal of ready money, as we are to buy a carriage and horses.  Weshall drive ourselves, for we have no one whom we can trust in thematter.  The Professor knows something of a great many languages, sowe shall get on all right.  We have all got arms, even for me a largebore revolver.  Jonathan would not be happy unless I was armed likethe rest.  Alas!  I cannot carry one arm that the rest do, the scar onmy forehead forbids that.  Dear Dr. Van Helsing comforts me by tellingme that I am fully armed as there may be wolves.  The weather isgetting colder every hour, and there are snow flurries which come andgo as warnings.Later.--It took all my courage to say goodbye to my darling.  We maynever meet again.  Courage, Mina!  The Professor is looking at youkeenly.  His look is a warning.  There must be no tears now, unless itmay be that God will let them fall in gladness.JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL30 October, night.--I am writing this in the light from the furnacedoor of the steam launch.  Lord Godalming is firing up.  He is anexperienced hand at the work, as he has had for years a launch of hisown on the Thames, and another on the Norfolk Broads.  Regarding ourplans, we finally decided that Mina's guess was correct, and that ifany waterway was chosen for the Count's escape back to his Castle, theSereth and then the Bistritza at its junction, would be the one.  Wetook it, that somewhere about the 47th degree, north latitude, wouldbe the place chosen for crossing the country between the river and theCarpathians.  We have no fear in running at good speed up the river atnight.  There is plenty of water, and the banks are wide enough apartto make steaming, even in the dark, easy enough.  Lord Godalming tellsme to sleep for a while, as it is enough for the present for one to beon watch.  But I cannot sleep, how can I with the terrible dangerhanging over my darling, and her going out into that awful place . . .My only comfort is that we are in the hands of God.  Only for thatfaith it would be easier to die than to live, and so be quit of allthe trouble.  Mr. Morris and Dr. Seward were off on their long ridebefore we started.  They are to keep up the right bank, far enough offto get on higher lands where they can see a good stretch of river andavoid the following of its curves.  They have, for the first stages,two men to ride and lead their spare horses, four in all, so as not toexcite curiosity.  When they dismiss the men, which shall be shortly,they shall themselves look after the horses.  It may be necessary forus to join forces.  If so they can mount our whole party.  One of thesaddles has a moveable horn, and can be easily adapted for Mina, ifrequired.It is a wild adventure we are on.  Here, as we are rushing alongthrough the darkness, with the cold from the river seeming to rise upand strike us, with all the mysterious voices of the night around us,it all comes home.  We seem to be drifting into unknown places andunknown ways.  Into a whole world of dark and dreadful things.Godalming is shutting the furnace door . . .31 October.--Still hurrying along.  The day has come, and Godalming issleeping.  I am on watch.  The morning is bitterly cold, the furnaceheat is grateful, though we have heavy fur coats.  As yet we havepassed only a few open boats, but none of them had on board any box orpackage of anything like the size of the one we seek.  The men werescared every time we turned our electric lamp on them, and fell ontheir knees and prayed.1 November, evening.--No news all day.  We have found nothing of thekind we seek.  We have now passed into the Bistritza, and if we arewrong in our surmise our chance is gone.  We have overhauled everyboat, big and little.  Early this morning, one crew took us for aGovernment boat, and treated us accordingly.  We saw in this a way ofsmoothing matters, so at Fundu, where the Bistritza runs into theSereth, we got a Roumanian flag which we now fly conspicuously.  Withevery boat which we have overhauled since then this trick hassucceeded.  We have had every deference shown to us, and not once anyobjection to whatever we chose to ask or do.  Some of the Slovaks tellus that a big boat passed them, going at more than usual speed as shehad a double crew on board.  This was before they came to Fundu, sothey could not tell us whether the boat turned into the Bistritza orcontinued on up the Sereth.  At Fundu we could not hear of any suchboat, so she must have passed there in the night.  I am feeling verysleepy.  The cold is perhaps beginning to tell upon me, and naturemust have rest some time.  Godalming insists that he shall keep thefirst watch.  God bless him for all his goodness to poor dear Mina andme.2 November, morning.--It is broad daylight.  That good fellow wouldnot wake me.  He says it would have been a sin to, for I sleptpeacefully and was forgetting my trouble.  It seems brutally selfishto me to have slept so long, and let him watch all night, but he wasquite right.  I am a new man this morning.  And, as I sit here andwatch him sleeping, I can do all that is necessary both as to mindingthe engine, steering, and keeping watch.  I can feel that my strengthand energy are coming back to me.  I wonder where Mina is now, and VanHelsing.  They should have got to Veresti about noon on Wednesday.  Itwould take them some time to get the carriage and horses.  So if theyhad started and travelled hard, they would be about now at the BorgoPass.  God guide and help them!  I am afraid to think what mayhappen.  If we could only go faster.  But we cannot.  The engines arethrobbing and doing their utmost.  I wonder how Dr. Seward and Mr.Morris are getting on.  There seem to be endless streams running downthe mountains into this river, but as none of them are very large, atpresent, at all events, though they are doubtless terrible in winterand when the snow melts, the horsemen may not have met muchobstruction.  I hope that before we get to Strasba we may see them.For if by that time we have not overtaken the Count, it may benecessary to take counsel together what to do next.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY2 November.--Three days on the road.  No news, and no time to write itif there had been, for every moment is precious.  We have had only therest needful for the horses.  But we are both bearing it wonderfully.Those adventurous days of ours are turning up useful.  We must pushon.  We shall never feel happy till we get the launch in sight again.3 November.--We heard at Fundu that the launch had gone up theBistritza.  I wish it wasn't so cold.  There are signs of snow coming.And if it falls heavy it will stop us.  In such case we must get asledge and go on, Russian fashion.4 November.--Today we heard of the launch having been detained by anaccident when trying to force a way up the rapids.  The Slovak boatsget up all right, by aid of a rope and steering with knowledge.  Somewent up only a few hours before.  Godalming is an amateur fitterhimself, and evidently it was he who put the launch in trim again.Finally, they got up the rapids all right, with local help, and are offon the chase afresh.  I fear that the boat is not any better for theaccident, the peasantry tell us that after she got upon smooth wateragain, she kept stopping every now and again so long as she was insight.  We must push on harder than ever.  Our help may be wantedsoon.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL31 October.--Arrived at Veresti at noon.  The Professor tells me thatthis morning at dawn he could hardly hypnotize me at all, and that allI could say was, "dark and quiet."  He is off now buying a carriageand horses.  He says that he will later on try to buy additionalhorses, so that we may be able to change them on the way.  We havesomething more than 70 miles before us.  The country is lovely, andmost interesting.  If only we were under different conditions, howdelightful it would be to see it all.  If Jonathan and I were drivingthrough it alone what a pleasure it would be.  To stop and see people,and learn something of their life, and to fill our minds and memorieswith all the colour and picturesqueness of the whole wild, beautifulcountry and the quaint people!  But, alas!Later.--Dr. Van Helsing has returned.  He has got the carriage andhorses.  We are to have some dinner, and to start in an hour.  Thelandlady is putting us up a huge basket of provisions.  It seemsenough for a company of soldiers.  The Professor encourages her, andwhispers to me that it may be a week before we can get any food again.He has been shopping too, and has sent home such a wonderful lot offur coats and wraps, and all sorts of warm things.  There will not beany chance of our being cold.We shall soon be off.  I am afraid to think what may happen to us.  Weare truly in the hands of God.  He alone knows what may be, and I prayHim, with all the strength of my sad and humble soul, that He willwatch over my beloved husband.  That whatever may happen, Jonathan mayknow that I loved him and honoured him more than I can say, and that mylatest and truest thought will be always for him.CHAPTER 27MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL1 November.--All day long we have travelled, and at a good speed.  Thehorses seem to know that they are being kindly treated, for they gowillingly their full stage at best speed.  We have now had so manychanges and find the same thing so constantly that we are encouragedto think that the journey will be an easy one.  Dr. Van Helsing islaconic, he tells the farmers that he is hurrying to Bistritz, andpays them well to make the exchange of horses.  We get hot soup, orcoffee, or tea, and off we go.  It is a lovely country.  Full ofbeauties of all imaginable kinds, and the people are brave, andstrong, and simple, and seem full of nice qualities.  They are very,very superstitious.  In the first house where we stopped, when thewoman who served us saw the scar on my forehead, she crossed herselfand put out two fingers towards me, to keep off the evil eye.  Ibelieve they went to the trouble of putting an extra amount of garlicinto our food, and I can't abide garlic.  Ever since then I have takencare not to take off my hat or veil, and so have escaped theirsuspicions.  We are travelling fast, and as we have no driver with usto carry tales, we go ahead of scandal.  But I daresay that fear ofthe evil eye will follow hard behind us all the way.  The Professorseems tireless.  All day he would not take any rest, though he made mesleep for a long spell.  At sunset time he hypnotized me, and he saysI answered as usual, "darkness, lapping water and creaking wood."  Soour enemy is still on the river.  I am afraid to think of Jonathan,but somehow I have now no fear for him, or for myself.  I write thiswhilst we wait in a farmhouse for the horses to be ready.  Dr. VanHelsing is sleeping.  Poor dear, he looks very tired and old and grey,but his mouth is set as firmly as a conqueror's.  Even in his sleep heis intense with resolution.  When we have well started I must make himrest whilst I drive.  I shall tell him that we have days before us,and he must not break down when most of all his strength will beneeded . . . All is ready.  We are off shortly.2 November, morning.--I was successful, and we took turns driving allnight.  Now the day is on us, bright though cold.  There is a strangeheaviness in the air.  I say heaviness for want of a better word.  Imean that it oppresses us both.  It is very cold, and only our warmfurs keep us comfortable.  At dawn Van Helsing hypnotized me.  He saysI answered "darkness, creaking wood and roaring water," so the riveris changing as they ascend.  I do hope that my darling will not runany chance of danger, more than need be, but we are in God's hands.2 November, night.--All day long driving.  The country gets wilder aswe go, and the great spurs of the Carpathians, which at Veresti seemedso far from us and so low on the horizon, now seem to gather round usand tower in front.  We both seem in good spirits.  I think we make aneffort each to cheer the other, in the doing so we cheer ourselves.Dr. Van Helsing says that by morning we shall reach the Borgo Pass.The houses are very few here now, and the Professor says that the lasthorse we got will have to go on with us, as we may not be able tochange.  He got two in addition to the two we changed, so that now wehave a rude four-in-hand.  The dear horses are patient and good, andthey give us no trouble.  We are not worried with other travellers,and so even I can drive.  We shall get to the Pass in daylight.  We donot want to arrive before.  So we take it easy, and have each a longrest in turn.  Oh, what will tomorrow bring to us?  We go to seek theplace where my poor darling suffered so much.  God grant that we maybe guided aright, and that He will deign to watch over my husband andthose dear to us both, and who are in such deadly peril.  As for me, Iam not worthy in His sight.  Alas!  I am unclean to His eyes, andshall be until He may deign to let me stand forth in His sight as oneof those who have not incurred His wrath.MEMORANDUM BY ABRAHAM VAN HELSING4 November.--This to my old and true friend John Seward, M.D.,of Purfleet, London, in case I may not see him.  It mayexplain.  It is morning, and I write by a fire which allthe night I have kept alive, Madam Mina aiding me.  It iscold, cold.  So cold that the grey heavy sky is full ofsnow, which when it falls will settle for all winter as theground is hardening to receive it.  It seems to have affectedMadam Mina.  She has been so heavy of head all day that she wasnot like herself.  She sleeps, and sleeps, and sleeps!  She whois usual so alert, have done literally nothing all the day.  Sheeven have lost her appetite.  She make no entry into her littlediary, she who write so faithful at every pause.  Somethingwhisper to me that all is not well.  However, tonight she is more_vif_.  Her long sleep all day have refresh and restore her, fornow she is all sweet and bright as ever.  At sunset I try tohypnotize her, but alas! with no effect.  The power has grownless and less with each day, and tonight it fail me altogether.Well, God's will be done, whatever it may be, and whithersoeverit may lead!Now to the historical, for as Madam Mina write not in herstenography, I must, in my cumbrous old fashion, that soeach day of us may not go unrecorded.We got to the Borgo Pass just after sunrise yesterdaymorning.  When I saw the signs of the dawn I got ready forthe hypnotism.  We stopped our carriage, and got down sothat there might be no disturbance.  I made a couch withfurs, and Madam Mina, lying down, yield herself as usual,but more slow and more short time than ever, to the hypnoticsleep.  As before, came the answer, "darkness and the swirling ofwater."  Then she woke, bright and radiant and we go on our wayand soon reach the Pass.  At this time and place, she become allon fire with zeal.  Some new guiding power be in her manifested,for she point to a road and say, "This is the way.""How know you it?" I ask."Of course I know it," she answer, and with a pause, add,"Have not my Jonathan travelled it and wrote of his travel?"At first I think somewhat strange, but soon I see that there beonly one such byroad.  It is used but little, and very differentfrom the coach road from the Bukovina to Bistritz, which is morewide and hard, and more of use.So we came down this road.  When we meet other ways, notalways were we sure that they were roads at all, for theybe neglect and light snow have fallen, the horses know andthey only.  I give rein to them, and they go on so patient.  Byand by we find all the things which Jonathan have note in thatwonderful diary of him.  Then we go on for long, long hours andhours.  At the first, I tell Madam Mina to sleep.  She try, andshe succeed.  She sleep all the time, till at the last, I feelmyself to suspicious grow, and attempt to wake her.  But shesleep on, and I may not wake her though I try.  I do not wish totry too hard lest I harm her.  For I know that she have suffermuch, and sleep at times be all-in-all to her.  I think I drowsemyself, for all of sudden I feel guilt, as though I have donesomething.  I find myself bolt up, with the reins in my hand, andthe good horses go along jog, jog, just as ever.  I look down andfind Madam Mina still asleep.  It is now not far off sunset time,and over the snow the light of the sun flow in big yellow flood,so that we throw great long shadow on where the mountain rise sosteep.  For we are going up, and up, and all is oh so wild androcky, as though it were the end of the world.Then I arouse Madam Mina.  This time she wake with not muchtrouble, and then I try to put her to hypnotic sleep.  Butshe sleep not, being as though I were not.  Still I try andtry, till all at once I find her and myself in dark, so Ilook round, and find that the sun have gone down.  MadamMina laugh, and I turn and look at her.  She is now quiteawake, and look so well as I never saw her since that nightat Carfax when we first enter the Count's house.  I am amaze, andnot at ease then.  But she is so bright and tender and thoughtfulfor me that I forget all fear.  I light a fire, for we havebrought supply of wood with us, and she prepare food while I undothe horses and set them, tethered in shelter, to feed.  Then whenI return to the fire she have my supper ready.  I go to help her,but she smile, and tell me that she have eat already.  That shewas so hungry that she would not wait.  I like it not, and I havegrave doubts.  But I fear to affright her, and so I am silent ofit.  She help me and I eat alone, and then we wrap in fur and liebeside the fire, and I tell her to sleep while I watch.  Butpresently I forget all of watching.  And when I sudden rememberthat I watch, I find her lying quiet, but awake, and looking atme with so bright eyes.  Once, twice more the same occur, and Iget much sleep till before morning.  When I wake I try tohypnotize her, but alas! though she shut her eyes obedient, shemay not sleep.  The sun rise up, and up, and up, and then sleepcome to her too late, but so heavy that she will not wake.  Ihave to lift her up, and place her sleeping in the carriage whenI have harnessed the horses and made all ready.  Madam stillsleep, and she look in her sleep more healthy and more redderthan before.  And I like it not.  And I am afraid, afraid,afraid!  I am afraid of all things, even to think but I must goon my way.  The stake we play for is life and death, or more thanthese, and we must not flinch.5 November, morning.--Let me be accurate in everything, forthough you and I have seen some strange things together,you may at the first think that I, Van Helsing, am mad.That the many horrors and the so long strain on nerves hasat the last turn my brain.All yesterday we travel, always getting closer to themountains, and moving into a more and more wild and desertland.  There are great, frowning precipices and much fallingwater, and Nature seem to have held sometime her carnival.  MadamMina still sleep and sleep.  And though I did have hunger andappeased it, I could not waken her, even for food.  I began tofear that the fatal spell of the place was upon her, tainted asshe is with that Vampire baptism.  "Well," said I to myself, "ifit be that she sleep all the day, it shall also be that I do notsleep at night."  As we travel on the rough road, for a road ofan ancient and imperfect kind there was, I held down my head andslept.Again I waked with a sense of guilt and of time passed, andfound Madam Mina still sleeping, and the sun low down.  Butall was indeed changed.  The frowning mountains seemed furtheraway, and we were near the top of a steep rising hill, on summitof which was such a castle as Jonathan tell of in his diary.  Atonce I exulted and feared.  For now, for good or ill, the end wasnear.I woke Madam Mina, and again tried to hypnotize her, butalas!  unavailing till too late.  Then, ere the great darkcame upon us, for even after down sun the heavens reflectedthe gone sun on the snow, and all was for a time in a greattwilight.  I took out the horses and fed them in what shelter Icould.  Then I make a fire, and near it I make Madam Mina, nowawake and more charming than ever, sit comfortable amid her rugs.I got ready food, but she would not eat, simply saying that shehad not hunger.  I did not press her, knowing her unavailingness.But I myself eat, for I must needs now be strong for all.  Then,with the fear on me of what might be, I drew a ring so big forher comfort, round where Madam Mina sat.  And over the ring Ipassed some of the wafer, and I broke it fine so that all waswell guarded.  She sat still all the time, so still as one dead.And she grew whiter and even whiter till the snow was not morepale, and no word she said.  But when I drew near, she clung tome, and I could know that the poor soul shook her from head tofeet with a tremor that was pain to feel.I said to her presently, when she had grown more quiet,"Will you not come over to the fire?" for I wished to makea test of what she could.  She rose obedient, but when shehave made a step she stopped, and stood as one stricken."Why not go on?" I asked.  She shook her head, and comingback, sat down in her place.  Then, looking at me with openeyes, as of one waked from sleep, she said simply, "I cannot!"and remained silent.  I rejoiced, for I knew that what she couldnot, none of those that we dreaded could.  Though there might bedanger to her body, yet her soul was safe!Presently the horses began to scream, and tore at theirtethers till I came to them and quieted them.  When theydid feel my hands on them, they whinnied low as in joy, andlicked at my hands and were quiet for a time.  Many timesthrough the night did I come to them, till it arrive to thecold hour when all nature is at lowest, and every time mycoming was with quiet of them.  In the cold hour the firebegan to die, and I was about stepping forth to replenishit, for now the snow came in flying sweeps and with it achill mist.  Even in the dark there was a light of somekind, as there ever is over snow, and it seemed as thoughthe snow flurries and the wreaths of mist took shape as ofwomen with trailing garments.  All was in dead, grim silence onlythat the horses whinnied and cowered, as if in terror of theworst.  I began to fear, horrible fears.  But then came to me thesense of safety in that ring wherein I stood.  I began too, tothink that my imaginings were of the night, and the gloom, andthe unrest that I have gone through, and all the terribleanxiety.  It was as though my memories of all Jonathan's horridexperience were befooling me.  For the snow flakes and the mistbegan to wheel and circle round, till I could get as though ashadowy glimpse of those women that would have kissed him.  Andthen the horses cowered lower and lower, and moaned in terror asmen do in pain.  Even the madness of fright was not to them, sothat they could break away.  I feared for my dear Madam Mina whenthese weird figures drew near and circled round.  I looked at her,but she sat calm, and smiled at me.  When I would have stepped tothe fire to replenish it, she caught me and held me back, andwhispered, like a voice that one hears in a dream, so low it was."No!  No!  Do not go without.  Here you are safe!"I turned to her, and looking in her eyes said, "But you?It is for you that I fear!"Whereat she laughed, a laugh low and unreal, and said, "Fearfor me!  Why fear for me?  None safer in all the world fromthem than I am," and as I wondered at the meaning of herwords, a puff of wind made the flame leap up, and I see thered scar on her forehead.  Then, alas!  I knew.  Did I not,I would soon have learned, for the wheeling figures of mistand snow came closer, but keeping ever without the Holycircle.  Then they began to materialize till, if God havenot taken away my reason, for I saw it through my eyes.There were before me in actual flesh the same three womenthat Jonathan saw in the room, when they would have kissedhis throat.  I knew the swaying round forms, the brighthard eyes, the white teeth, the ruddy colour, the voluptuouslips.  They smiled ever at poor dear Madam Mina.  And astheir laugh came through the silence of the night, theytwined their arms and pointed to her, and said in those sosweet tingling tones that Jonathan said were of the intolerablesweetness of the water glasses, "Come, sister.  Come to us.Come!"In fear I turned to my poor Madam Mina, and my heart withgladness leapt like flame.  For oh! the terror in her sweeteyes, the repulsion, the horror, told a story to my heartthat was all of hope.  God be thanked she was not, yet, ofthem.  I seized some of the firewood which was by me, andholding out some of the Wafer, advanced on them towards thefire.  They drew back before me, and laughed their low horridlaugh.  I fed the fire, and feared them not.  For I knew that wewere safe within the ring, which she could not leave no more thanthey could enter.  The horses had ceased to moan, and lay stillon the ground.  The snow fell on them softly, and they grewwhiter.  I knew that there was for the poor beasts no more ofterror.And so we remained till the red of the dawn began to fallthrough the snow gloom.  I was desolate and afraid, andfull of woe and terror.  But when that beautiful sun beganto climb the horizon life was to me again.  At the firstcoming of the dawn the horrid figures melted in the whirlingmist and snow.  The wreaths of transparent gloom moved awaytowards the castle, and were lost.Instinctively, with the dawn coming, I turned to Madam Mina,intending to hypnotize her.  But she lay in a deep and suddensleep, from which I could not wake her.  I tried to hypnotizethrough her sleep, but she made no response, none at all, and theday broke.  I fear yet to stir.  I have made my fire and haveseen the horses, they are all dead.  Today I have much to do here,and I keep waiting till the sun is up high.  For there may beplaces where I must go, where that sunlight, though snow and mistobscure it, will be to me a safety.I will strengthen me with breakfast, and then I will do myterrible work.  Madam Mina still sleeps, and God be thanked!  Sheis calm in her sleep . . .JONATHAN HARKER'S JOURNAL4 November, evening.--The accident to the launch has been a terriblething for us.  Only for it we should have overtaken the boat long ago,and by now my dear Mina would have been free.  I fear to think of her,off on the wolds near that horrid place.  We have got horses, and wefollow on the track.  I note this whilst Godalming is getting ready.We have our arms.  The Szgany must look out if they mean to fight.  Oh,if only Morris and Seward were with us.  We must only hope!  If Iwrite no more Goodby Mina!  God bless and keep you.DR. SEWARD'S DIARY5 November.--With the dawn we saw the body of Szgany before us dashingaway from the river with their leiter wagon.  They surrounded it in acluster, and hurried along as though beset.  The snow is fallinglightly and there is a strange excitement in the air.  It may be ourown feelings, but the depression is strange.  Far off I hear thehowling of wolves.  The snow brings them down from the mountains, andthere are dangers to all of us, and from all sides.  The horses arenearly ready, and we are soon off.  We ride to death of some one.  Godalone knows who, or where, or what, or when, or how it may be . . .DR. VAN HELSING'S MEMORANDUM5 November, afternoon.--I am at least sane.  Thank God forthat mercy at all events, though the proving it has beendreadful.  When I left Madam Mina sleeping within the Holycircle, I took my way to the castle.  The blacksmith hammerwhich I took in the carriage from Veresti was useful, though thedoors were all open I broke them off the rusty hinges, lest someill intent or ill chance should close them, so that being enteredI might not get out.  Jonathan's bitter experience served mehere.  By memory of his diary I found my way to the old chapel,for I knew that here my work lay.  The air was oppressive.  Itseemed as if there was some sulphurous fume, which at times mademe dizzy.  Either there was a roaring in my ears or I heard afaroff the howl of wolves.  Then I bethought me of my dear MadamMina, and I was in terrible plight.  The dilemma had me betweenhis horns.Her, I had not dare to take into this place, but left safefrom the Vampire in that Holy circle.  And yet even therewould be the wolf!  I resolve me that my work lay here, andthat as to the wolves we must submit, if it were God's will.  Atany rate it was only death and freedom beyond.  So did I choosefor her.  Had it but been for myself the choice had been easy,the maw of the wolf were better to rest in than the grave of theVampire!  So I make my choice to go on with my work.I knew that there were at least three graves to find, gravesthat are inhabit.  So I search, and search, and I find oneof them.  She lay in her Vampire sleep, so full of life andvoluptuous beauty that I shudder as though I have come todo murder.  Ah, I doubt not that in the old time, when suchthings were, many a man who set forth to do such a task asmine, found at the last his heart fail him, and then hisnerve.  So he delay, and delay, and delay, till the merebeauty and the fascination of the wanton Undead have hypnotizehim.  And he remain on and on, till sunset come, and the Vampiresleep be over.  Then the beautiful eyes of the fair woman openand look love, and the voluptuous mouth present to a kiss, andthe man is weak.  And there remain one more victim in theVampire fold.  One more to swell the grim and grisly ranksof the Undead! . . .There is some fascination, surely, when I am moved by themere presence of such an one, even lying as she lay in atomb fretted with age and heavy with the dust of centuries,though there be that horrid odour such as the lairs of theCount have had.  Yes, I was moved.  I, Van Helsing, withall my purpose and with my motive for hate.  I was moved toa yearning for delay which seemed to paralyze my facultiesand to clog my very soul.  It may have been that the needof natural sleep, and the strange oppression of the airwere beginning to overcome me.  Certain it was that I waslapsing into sleep, the open eyed sleep of one who yieldsto a sweet fascination, when there came through the snow-stilledair a long, low wail, so full of woe and pity that it woke melike the sound of a clarion.  For it was the voice of my dearMadam Mina that I heard.Then I braced myself again to my horrid task, and found bywrenching away tomb tops one other of the sisters, the other darkone.  I dared not pause to look on her as I had on her sister,lest once more I should begin to be enthrall.  But I go onsearching until, presently, I find in a high great tomb as ifmade to one much beloved that other fair sister which, likeJonathan I had seen to gather herself out of the atoms of themist.  She was so fair to look on, so radiantly beautiful, soexquisitely voluptuous, that the very instinct of man in me,which calls some of my sex to love and to protect one of hers,made my head whirl with new emotion.  But God be thanked, thatsoul wail of my dear Madam Mina had not died out of my ears.And, before the spell could be wrought further upon me, I hadnerved myself to my wild work.  By this time I had searched allthe tombs in the chapel, so far as I could tell.  And as therehad been only three of these Undead phantoms around us in thenight, I took it that there were no more of active Undeadexistent.  There was one great tomb more lordly than all therest.  Huge it was, and nobly proportioned.  On it was but oneword.            DRACULAThis then was the Undead home of the King Vampire, to whomso many more were due.  Its emptiness spoke eloquent tomake certain what I knew.  Before I began to restore thesewomen to their dead selves through my awful work, I laid inDracula's tomb some of the Wafer, and so banished him fromit, Undead, for ever.Then began my terrible task, and I dreaded it.  Had it beenbut one, it had been easy, comparative.  But three!  Tobegin twice more after I had been through a deed of horror.For it was terrible with the sweet Miss Lucy, what would itnot be with these strange ones who had survived throughcenturies, and who had been strengthened by the passing ofthe years.  Who would, if they could, have fought for theirfoul lives . . .Oh, my friend John, but it was butcher work.  Had I notbeen nerved by thoughts of other dead, and of the livingover whom hung such a pall of fear, I could not have goneon.  I tremble and tremble even yet, though till all wasover, God be thanked, my nerve did stand.  Had I not seenthe repose in the first place, and the gladness that stoleover it just ere the final dissolution came, as realizationthat the soul had been won, I could not have gone furtherwith my butchery.  I could not have endured the horrid screechingas the stake drove home, the plunging of writhing form, and lipsof bloody foam.  I should have fled in terror and left my workundone.  But it is over!  And the poor souls, I can pity them nowand weep, as I think of them placid each in her full sleep ofdeath for a short moment ere fading.  For, friend John, hardlyhad my knife severed the head of each, before the whole bodybegan to melt away and crumble into its native dust, as thoughthe death that should have come centuries ago had at last asserthimself and say at once and loud, "I am here!"Before I left the castle I so fixed its entrances that nevermore can the Count enter there Undead.When I stepped into the circle where Madam Mina slept, shewoke from her sleep and, seeing me, cried out in pain thatI had endured too much."Come!" she said, "come away from this awful place!  Let usgo to meet my husband who is, I know, coming towards us."She was looking thin and pale and weak.  But her eyes werepure and glowed with fervour.  I was glad to see her paleness andher illness, for my mind was full of the fresh horror of thatruddy vampire sleep.And so with trust and hope, and yet full of fear, we goeastward to meet our friends, and him, whom Madam Mina tellme that she know are coming to meet us.MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL6 November.--It was late in the afternoon when the Professor and Itook our way towards the east whence I knew Jonathan was coming.  Wedid not go fast, though the way was steeply downhill, for we had totake heavy rugs and wraps with us.  We dared not face the possibilityof being left without warmth in the cold and the snow.  We had to takesome of our provisions too, for we were in a perfect desolation, andso far as we could see through the snowfall, there was not even thesign of habitation.  When we had gone about a mile, I was tired withthe heavy walking and sat down to rest.  Then we looked back and sawwhere the clear line of Dracula's castle cut the sky.  For we were sodeep under the hill whereon it was set that the angle of perspectiveof the Carpathian mountains was far below it.  We saw it in all itsgrandeur, perched a thousand feet on the summit of a sheer precipice,and with seemingly a great gap between it and the steep of theadjacent mountain on any side.  There was something wild and uncannyabout the place.  We could hear the distant howling of wolves.  Theywere far off, but the sound, even though coming muffled through thedeadening snowfall, was full of terror.  I knew from the way Dr. VanHelsing was searching about that he was trying to seek some strategicpoint, where we would be less exposed in case of attack.  The roughroadway still led downwards.  We could trace it through the driftedsnow.In a little while the Professor signalled to me, so I got up andjoined him.  He had found a wonderful spot, a sort of natural hollowin a rock, with an entrance like a doorway between two boulders.  Hetook me by the hand and drew me in."See!" he said, "here you will be in shelter.  And if the wolves docome I can meet them one by one."He brought in our furs, and made a snug nest for me, and got out someprovisions and forced them upon me.  But I could not eat, to even tryto do so was repulsive to me, and much as I would have liked to pleasehim, I could not bring myself to the attempt.  He looked very sad, butdid not reproach me.  Taking his field glasses from the case, he stoodon the top of the rock, and began to search the horizon.Suddenly he called out, "Look!  Madam Mina, look!  Look!"I sprang up and stood beside him on the rock.  He handed me hisglasses and pointed.  The snow was now falling more heavily, andswirled about fiercely, for a high wind was beginning to blow.However, there were times when there were pauses between the snowflurries and I could see a long way round.  From the height where wewere it was possible to see a great distance.  And far off, beyond thewhite waste of snow, I could see the river lying like a black ribbonin kinks and curls as it wound its way.  Straight in front of us andnot far off, in fact so near that I wondered we had not noticedbefore, came a group of mounted men hurrying along.  In the midst ofthem was a cart, a long leiter wagon which swept from side to side,like a dog's tail wagging, with each stern inequality of the road.Outlined against the snow as they were, I could see from the men'sclothes that they were peasants or gypsies of some kind.On the cart was a great square chest.  My heart leaped as I saw it, forI felt that the end was coming.  The evening was now drawing close,and well I knew that at sunset the Thing, which was till thenimprisoned there, would take new freedom and could in any of manyforms elude pursuit.  In fear I turned to the Professor.  To myconsternation, however, he was not there.  An instant later, I saw himbelow me.  Round the rock he had drawn a circle, such as we had foundshelter in last night.When he had completed it he stood beside me again saying, "At leastyou shall be safe here from him!"  He took the glasses from me, and atthe next lull of the snow swept the whole space below us.  "See," hesaid, "they come quickly.  They are flogging the horses, and gallopingas hard as they can."He paused and went on in a hollow voice, "They are racing for thesunset.  We may be too late.  God's will be done!"  Down came anotherblinding rush of driving snow, and the whole landscape was blottedout.  It soon passed, however, and once more his glasses were fixed onthe plain.Then came a sudden cry, "Look!  Look!  Look!  See, two horsemen followfast, coming up from the south.  It must be Quincey and John.  Takethe glass.  Look before the snow blots it all out!"  I took it andlooked.  The two men might be Dr. Seward and Mr. Morris.  I knew atall events that neither of them was Jonathan.  At the same time I knewthat Jonathan was not far off.  Looking around I saw on the north sideof the coming party two other men, riding at breakneck speed.  One ofthem I knew was Jonathan, and the other I took, of course, to be LordGodalming.  They too, were pursuing the party with the cart.  When Itold the Professor he shouted in glee like a schoolboy, and afterlooking intently till a snow fall made sight impossible, he laid hisWinchester rifle ready for use against the boulder at the opening ofour shelter."They are all converging," he said.  "When the time comes we shall havegypsies on all sides."  I got out my revolver ready to hand, forwhilst we were speaking the howling of wolves came louder and closer.When the snow storm abated a moment we looked again.  It was strangeto see the snow falling in such heavy flakes close to us, and beyond,the sun shining more and more brightly as it sank down towards the farmountain tops.  Sweeping the glass all around us I could see here andthere dots moving singly and in twos and threes and larger numbers.The wolves were gathering for their prey.Every instant seemed an age whilst we waited.  The wind came now infierce bursts, and the snow was driven with fury as it swept upon usin circling eddies.  At times we could not see an arm's length beforeus.  But at others, as the hollow sounding wind swept by us, it seemedto clear the air space around us so that we could see afar off.  Wehad of late been so accustomed to watch for sunrise and sunset, thatwe knew with fair accuracy when it would be.  And we knew that beforelong the sun would set.  It was hard to believe that by our watches itwas less than an hour that we waited in that rocky shelter before thevarious bodies began to converge close upon us.  The wind came nowwith fiercer and more bitter sweeps, and more steadily from thenorth.  It seemingly had driven the snow clouds from us, for with onlyoccasional bursts, the snow fell.  We could distinguish clearly theindividuals of each party, the pursued and the pursuers.  Strangelyenough those pursued did not seem to realize, or at least to care,that they were pursued.  They seemed, however, to hasten withredoubled speed as the sun dropped lower and lower on the mountaintops.Closer and closer they drew.  The Professor and I crouched down behindour rock, and held our weapons ready.  I could see that he wasdetermined that they should not pass.  One and all were quite unawareof our presence.All at once two voices shouted out to "Halt!"  One was my Jonathan's,raised in a high key of passion.  The other Mr. Morris' strongresolute tone of quiet command.  The gypsies may not have known thelanguage, but there was no mistaking the tone, in whatever tongue thewords were spoken.  Instinctively they reined in, and at the instantLord Godalming and Jonathan dashed up at one side and Dr. Seward andMr. Morris on the other.  The leader of the gypsies, a splendidlooking fellow who sat his horse like a centaur, waved them back, andin a fierce voice gave to his companions some word to proceed.  Theylashed the horses which sprang forward.  But the four men raised theirWinchester rifles, and in an unmistakable way commanded them to stop.At the same moment Dr. Van Helsing and I rose behind the rock andpointed our weapons at them.  Seeing that they were surrounded the mentightened their reins and drew up.  The leader turned to them and gavea word at which every man of the gypsy party drew what weapon hecarried, knife or pistol, and held himself in readiness to attack.Issue was joined in an instant.The leader, with a quick movement of his rein, threw his horse out infront, and pointed first to the sun, now close down on the hill tops,and then to the castle, said something which I did not understand.For answer, all four men of our party threw themselves from theirhorses and dashed towards the cart.  I should have felt terrible fearat seeing Jonathan in such danger, but that the ardor of battle musthave been upon me as well as the rest of them.  I felt no fear, butonly a wild, surging desire to do something.  Seeing the quickmovement of our parties, the leader of the gypsies gave a command.  Hismen instantly formed round the cart in a sort of undisciplinedendeavour, each one shouldering and pushing the other in his eagernessto carry out the order.In the midst of this I could see that Jonathan on one side of the ringof men, and Quincey on the other, were forcing a way to the cart.  Itwas evident that they were bent on finishing their task before the sunshould set.  Nothing seemed to stop or even to hinder them.  Neitherthe levelled weapons nor the flashing knives of the gypsies in front,nor the howling of the wolves behind, appeared to even attract theirattention.  Jonathan's impetuosity, and the manifest singleness of hispurpose, seemed to overawe those in front of him.  Instinctively theycowered aside and let him pass.  In an instant he had jumped upon thecart, and with a strength which seemed incredible, raised the greatbox, and flung it over the wheel to the ground.  In the meantime, Mr.Morris had had to use force to pass through his side of the ring ofSzgany.  All the time I had been breathlessly watching Jonathan I had,with the tail of my eye, seen him pressing desperately forward, andhad seen the knives of the gypsies flash as he won a way through them,and they cut at him.  He had parried with his great bowie knife, andat first I thought that he too had come through in safety.  But as hesprang beside Jonathan, who had by now jumped from the cart, I couldsee that with his left hand he was clutching at his side, and that theblood was spurting through his fingers.  He did not delaynotwithstanding this, for as Jonathan, with desperate energy, attackedone end of the chest, attempting to prize off the lid with his greatKukri knife, he attacked the other frantically with his bowie.  Underthe efforts of both men the lid began to yield.  The nails drew with ascreeching sound, and the top of the box was thrown back.By this time the gypsies, seeing themselves covered by theWinchesters, and at the mercy of Lord Godalming and Dr. Seward, hadgiven in and made no further resistance.  The sun was almost down onthe mountain tops, and the shadows of the whole group fell upon thesnow.  I saw the Count lying within the box upon the earth, some ofwhich the rude falling from the cart had scattered over him.  He wasdeathly pale, just like a waxen image, and the red eyes glared withthe horrible vindictive look which I knew so well.As I looked, the eyes saw the sinking sun, and the look of hate inthem turned to triumph.But, on the instant, came the sweep and flash of Jonathan's greatknife.  I shrieked as I saw it shear through the throat.  Whilst atthe same moment Mr. Morris's bowie knife plunged into the heart.It was like a miracle, but before our very eyes, and almost in thedrawing of a breath, the whole body crumbled into dust and passed fromour sight.I shall be glad as long as I live that even in that moment of finaldissolution, there was in the face a look of peace, such as I nevercould have imagined might have rested there.The Castle of Dracula now stood out against the red sky, and everystone of its broken battlements was articulated against the light ofthe setting sun.The gypsies, taking us as in some way the cause of the extraordinarydisappearance of the dead man, turned, without a word, and rode awayas if for their lives.  Those who were unmounted jumped upon theleiter wagon and shouted to the horsemen not to desert them.  Thewolves, which had withdrawn to a safe distance, followed in theirwake, leaving us alone.Mr. Morris, who had sunk to the ground, leaned on his elbow, holdinghis hand pressed to his side.  The blood still gushed through hisfingers.  I flew to him, for the Holy circle did not now keep me back;so did the two doctors.  Jonathan knelt behind him and the wounded manlaid back his head on his shoulder.  With a sigh he took, with afeeble effort, my hand in that of his own which was unstained.He must have seen the anguish of my heart in my face, for he smiled atme and said, "I am only too happy to have been of service!  Oh, God!"he cried suddenly, struggling to a sitting posture and pointing to me."It was worth for this to die!  Look!  Look!"The sun was now right down upon the mountain top, and the red gleamsfell upon my face, so that it was bathed in rosy light.  With oneimpulse the men sank on their knees and a deep and earnest "Amen"broke from all as their eyes followed the pointing of his finger.The dying man spoke, "Now God be thanked that all has not been invain!  See!  The snow is not more stainless than her forehead!  Thecurse has passed away!"And, to our bitter grief, with a smile and in silence, he died, agallant gentleman.NOTESeven years ago we all went through the flames.  And the happiness ofsome of us since then is, we think, well worth the pain we endured.It is an added joy to Mina and to me that our boy's birthday is thesame day as that on which Quincey Morris died.  His mother holds, Iknow, the secret belief that some of our brave friend's spirit haspassed into him.  His bundle of names links all our little band of mentogether.  But we call him Quincey.In the summer of this year we made a journey to Transylvania, and wentover the old ground which was, and is, to us so full of vivid andterrible memories.  It was almost impossible to believe that thethings which we had seen with our own eyes and heard with our own earswere living truths.  Every trace of all that had been was blottedout.  The castle stood as before, reared high above a waste ofdesolation.When we got home we were talking of the old time, which we could alllook back on without despair, for Godalming and Seward are bothhappily married.  I took the papers from the safe where they had beenever since our return so long ago.  We were struck with the fact, thatin all the mass of material of which the record is composed, there ishardly one authentic document.  Nothing but a mass of typewriting,except the later notebooks of Mina and Seward and myself, and VanHelsing's memorandum.  We could hardly ask any one, even did we wishto, to accept these as proofs of so wild a story.  Van Helsing summedit all up as he said, with our boy on his knee."We want no proofs.  We ask none to believe us!  This boy will someday know what a brave and gallant woman his mother is.  Already heknows her sweetness and loving care.  Later on he will understand howsome men so loved her, that they did dare much for her sake."JONATHAN HARKEREnd of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Dracula, by Bram Stoker*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DRACULA ******** This file should be named 345.txt or 345.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/4/345/Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.